                  COMPUTER SECURITY ACT OF 1987



              June 11, 1987 - Ordered to be printed

Mr. Roe, from the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology,
submitted the following


                                REPORT  

[To accompany H.R. 145 which on January 6, 1987, was referred
jointly to the Committee on Science, Space, and Technology and the
Committee on Government Operations]

     [Including cost estimate of the Congressional Budget Office]

  The Committee on Science, Space, and Technology, to whom was
referred the bill (H.R. 145) to provide for a computer standards
program within the National Bureau of Standards, to provide for
Government-wide computer security, and to provide for the training
in security matters of persons who are involved in the management,
operation, and use of Federal Computer systems, and for other
purposes, having considered the same, report favorably thereon with
an amendment and recommend that the bill as amended do pass.




                            CONTENTS

                                                    Original
                                                      Page

   I.  Background                                       6
  II.  Issues raised during the hearings                9
 III.  Need for legislation                            23
  IV.  Explanation of the bill                         23
   V.  Sectional analysis                              31
  VI.  Effect of legislation on inflation              37
 VII.  Committee oversight findings and 
       recommendation                                  37
VIII.  Oversight findings and recommendations by
       the Committee on Government Operations          37
  IX.  Budget analysis and projection                  37
   X.  Congressional Budget Office cost estimate       37
  XI.  Administration position                         41
 XII.  Changes in existing law made by the bill,
       as reported                                     41
XIII.  Committee recommendation                        47


  The amendment is as follows:

  Strike out all after the enacting clause and insert in lieu
thereof the following:


SECTION 1.  SHORT TITLE

  The Act may be cited as the "Computer Security Act of 1987".


SEC. 2  PURPOSE

  (a)  IN GENERAL.-The Congress declares that improving the
security and privacy of sensitive information in Federal computer
systems is in the public interest, and hereby creates a means for
establishing minimum acceptable security practices for such
systems, without limiting the scope of security measures already
planned or in use.

  (b)  SPECIFIC PURPOSES.-The purposes of this Act are--
     
     (1) by amending the Act of March 3, 1901, to assign to the
National Bureau of Standards responsibility for developing
standards and guidelines for Federal computer systems, including
responsibility for developing standards and guidelines needed to
assure the cost-effective security and privacy of sensitive
information in Federal computer systems, drawing on the technical
advice and assistance (including work products) of the National
Security Agency, where appropriate;

     (2) to provide for promulgation of such standards and
guidelines by amending section 111(d) of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949;

     (3) to require establishment of security plans by all
operators of Federal computer systems that contain sensitive
information; and

     (4) to require mandatory periodic training for all persons
involved in management, use, or operation of Federal computer
systems that contain sensitive information.


SEC. 3.  ESTABLISHMENT OF COMPUTER STANDARDS PROGRAM.

  The Act of March 3, 1901, (15 U.S.C. 271-278h), is amended--

     (1) in section 2(f), by striking out "and" at the end of
paragraph (18), by striking out the period at the end of paragraph
(19) and inserting in lieu thereof:  "; and", and by inserting
after such paragraph the following:

     "(20) the study of computer systems (as that term is defined
in section 20(d) of this Act) and their use to control machinery
and processes.";

     (2) by redesignating section 20 as section 22, and by
inserting after section 19 the following new sections:
"SEC. 20.  (a)  The National Bureau of Standards shall--
 
     "(1) have the mission of developing standards, guidelines, and
associated methods and techniques for computer systems;

     "(2) except as described in paragraph (3) of this subsection
(relating to security standards), develop uniform standards and
guidelines for Federal computer systems, except those systems
excluded by section 2315 of title 10, United States Code, or
section 3502(2) of title 44, United States Code.

     "(3) have responsibility within the Federal Government for
developing technical, management, physical, and administrative
standards and guidelines for the cost-effective security and
privacy of sensitive information in Federal computer systems
except--

          "(A)  those systems excluded by section 2315 of title 10,
     United States Code, or section 3502(2) of title 44, United
     States Code; and

          "(B)  those systems which are protected at all times by
     procedures established for information which has been
     specifically authorized under criteria established by an
     Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the
     interest of national defense or foreign policy, the primary
     purpose of which standards and guidelines shall be to control
     loss and unauthorized modification or disclosure of sensitive
     information in such systems and to prevent computer-related
     fraud and misuse;

     "(4) submit standards and guidelines developed pursuant to
paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, along with
recommendations as to the extent to which these should be made
compulsory and binding, to the Secretary of Commerce for
promulgation under section 111(d) of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949;

     "(5) develop guidelines for use by operators of Federal
computer systems that contain sensitive information in training
their employees in security awareness and accepted security
practice, as required by section 5 of the Computer Security Act of
1987; and

     "(6) develop validation procedures for, and evaluate the
effectiveness of, standards and guidelines developed pursuant to
paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection through research
and liaison with other government and private agencies. 

  "(b) In fulfilling subsection (a) of this section, the National
Bureau of Standards is authorized--

     "(1) to assist the private sector, upon request, in using and
applying the results of the programs and activities under this
section;

     "(2) to make recommendations, as appropriate, to the
Administrator of General Services on policies and regulations
proposed pursuant to section 111(d) of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949;

     "(3) as requested, to provide to operators of Federal computer
systems technical assistance in implementing the standards and
guidelines promulgated pursuant to section 111(d) of the Federal
Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949;

     "(4) to assist, as appropriate, the Office of Personnel
Management in developing regulations pertaining to training, as
required by section 5 of the Computer Security Act of 1987;

     "(5) to perform research and to conduct studies, as needed,
to determine the nature and extent of the vulnerabilities of, and
to devise techniques for the cost effective security and privacy
of sensitive information in Federal computer systems; and

     "(6) to coordinate closely with other agencies and offices
(including, but not limited to, the Departments of Defense and
Energy, the National Security Agency, the General Accounting
Office, the Office of Technology Assessment, and the Office of
Management and Budget)--

          "(A) to assure maximum use of all existing and planned
     programs, materials, studies, and reports relating to computer
     systems security and privacy, in order to avoid unnecessary
     and costly duplication of effort; and 
          "(B) to assure, to the maximum extent feasible, that
     standards developed pursuant to subsection (a) (3) and (5) are
     consistent and compatible with standards and procedures
     developed for the protection of information in Federal
     computer systems which is authorized under criteria
     established by Executive order or an Act of Congress to be
     kept secret in the interest of national defense or foreign
     policy.

  "(c) For the purposes of--

     "(1) developing standards and guidelines for the protection
of sensitive information in Federal computer systems under
subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3), and 

     "(2) performing research and conducting studies under
subsection (b)(5), the National Bureau of Standards shall draw upon
computer system technical security guidelines developed by the
National Security Agency to the extent that the National Bureau of
Standards determines that such guidelines are consistent with the
requirements for protecting sensitive information in Federal
computer systems.

  "(d) As used in this section--

     "(1) the term computer system'--

          "A) means any equipment or interconnected system or
     subsystems of equipment that is used in the automatic
     acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement,
     control, display, switching, interchange, transmission, or
     reception, of data or information; and 

          "(B) includes--

               "(i) computers;
               "(ii) ancillary equipment;
               "(iii) software, firmware, and similar procedures;
               "(iv) services, including support services; and
               "(v) related resources as defined by regulations
               issued by the Administrator for General Services
               pursuant to section 111 of the Federal Property and
               Administrative Services Act of 1949;

          "(2) the term 'Federal computer system'--

          "(A) means a computer system operated by a Federal agency
     or by a contractor of a Federal agency or other organization
     that processes information (using a computer system) on behalf
     of the Federal Government to accomplish a Federal function;
     and

          "(B) includes automatic data processing equipment as that
     term is defined in section 111(a)(2) of the Federal Property
     and Administrative Services Act of 1949;

          "(3) the term 'operator of a Federal computer system'
     means a Federal agency, contractor of a Federal agency, or
     other organization that processes information using a computer
     system on behalf of the Federal Government to accomplish a
     Federal function;   

          "(4) the term 'sensitive information' means any
     information, the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or
     modification of which could adversely affect the national
     interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or the privacy
     to which individuals are entitled under section 552a of title
     5, United States Code (the Privacy Act), but which has not
     been specifically authorized under criteria established by an
     Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret in the
     interest of national defense or foreign policy; and

          "(5) the term 'Federal agency' has the meaning given such
     term by section 3(b) of the Federal Property and
     Administrative Services Act of 1949.

  "SEC. 21.  (a) There is hereby established a Computer System
Security and Privacy Advisory Board within the Department of
Commerce.  The Secretary of Commerce shall appoint the chairman of
the Board.  The Board shall be composed of twelve additional
members appointed by the Secretary of Commerce as follows:

          "(1) four members from outside the Federal Government who
     are eminent in the computer or telecommunications industry,
     at lease one of whom is representative of small or medium
     sized companies in such industries;

          "(2) four members from outside the Federal
     Government who are eminent in the fields of computer or
     telecommunications technology, or related disciplines,
     but who are not employed by or representative of a
     producer of computer or telecommunications equipment; and

          "(3) four members from the Federal Government who have
     computer systems management experience, including experience
     in computer systems security and privacy, at least one of whom
     shall be from the National Security Agency.

  "(b) The duties of the Board shall be--

          "(1) to identify emerging managerial, technical,
     administrative, and physical safeguard issues relative to
     computer systems security and privacy; 

          "(2) to advise the Bureau of Standards and the Secretary
     of Commerce on security and privacy issues pertaining to
     Federal computer systems; and

          "(3) to report its findings to the Secretary of Commerce,
     the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the
     Director of the National Security Agency, and the appropriate
     Committees of the Congress.

  "(c) The term of office of each member of the Board shall be four
years, except that--

          "(1) of the initial members, three shall be appointed
     for terms of one year, three shall be appointed for terms of
     two years, three shall be appointed for terms of three years,
     and three shall be appointed for terms of four years; and

          "(2) any member appointed to fill a vacancy in the Board
     shall serve for the remainder of the term for which his
     predecessor was appointed.

  "(d) The Board shall not act in the absence of a quorum, which
shall consist of seven members.

  "(e) Members of the Board, other than full-time employees of the
Federal Government while attending meetings of such committees or
while otherwise performing duties at the request of the Board
Chairman while away from their homes or a regular place of
business, may be allowed travel expenses in accordance with
subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.

  "(f) To provide the staff services necessary to assist the Board
in carrying out its functions, the Board may utilize personnel from
the National Bureau of Standards or any other agency of the Federal
Government with the consent of the head of the agency.

  "(g) As used in this section, the terms 'computer system' and
'Federal computer system' have the meanings given in section 20(d)
of this Act."; and 

     "(3) by adding at the end thereof the following new section:

  "SEC. 23.  This Act may be cited as the National Bureau of
Standards Act."


SEC. 4  AMENDMENT TO BROOKS ACT.

  Section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative
Services Act of 1949 (40 U.S.C. 759(d)) is amended to read as
follows:

  "(d)(1) The Secretary of Commerce shall, on the basis of
standards and guidelines developed by the National Bureau of
Standards pursuant to section 20(a) (2) and (3) of the National
Bureau of Standards Act, promulgate standards and guidelines
pertaining to Federal computer systems, making such standards
compulsory and binding to the extent to which the Secretary
determines necessary to improve the efficiency of operation or
security and privacy of Federal computer systems.  The President
may disapprove or modify such standards and guidelines if he
determines such action to be in the public interest.  The
President's authority to disapprove or modify such standards and
guidelines may not be delegated.  Notice of such disapproval or
modification shall be submitted promptly to the Committee on 
Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be
published promptly in the Federal Register.  Upon receiving notice
of such disapproval or modification, the Secretary of Commerce
shall immediately rescind or modify such standards or guidelines
as directed by the President.

  "(2) The head of a Federal agency may employ standards for the
cost effective security and privacy of sensitive information in a
Federal computer system within or under the supervision of that
agency that ar more stringent than the standards promulgated by the
Secretary of Commerce, if such standards contain, at a minimum, the
provisions of those applicable standards made compulsory and
binding by the Secretary of Commerce.

  "(3) The standards determined to be compulsory and binding may
be waived by the Secretary of Commerce in writing upon a
determination that compliance would adversely affect the
accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer
system, or cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator
which is not offset by government-wide savings.  The Secretary may
delegate to the head of one or more Federal agencies authority to
waive such standards to the extent to which the Secretary
determines such action to be necessary and desirable to allow for
timely and effect implementation of Federal computer systems
standards.  The head of such agency may redelegate such authority
only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b)
of title 44, United States Code.  Notice of each such waiver and
delegation shall be transmitted promptly to the Committee on
Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be
published promptly in the Federal Register.

  "(4) The Administrator shall revise the Federal information
resources management regulations (41 CFR ch. 201) to be consistent
with the standards and guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of
Commerce under this subsection.

  "(5) As used in this subsection, the terms 'Federal computer
system' and 'operator of a Federal computer system' have the
meanings given in section 20(d) of the National Bureau of Standards
Act.".


SEC. 5.  FEDERAL COMPUTER SYSTEM SECURITY TRAINING.

  (a) In General.--Each Federal agency shall provide for the
mandatory periodic training in computer security awareness and
accepted computer security practice of all employees who are
involved with the management, use, or operation of each Federal
computer system within or under the supervision of that agency. 
Such training shall be--

       (1) provided in accordance with the guidelines developed
     pursuant to section 20(a)(5) of the National Bureau of
     Standards Act (as added by section 3 of this Act), and in
     accordance with the regulations issued under subsection (c)
     of this section for Federal civilian employees; or

       (2) provided by an alternative training program approved by
     the head of that agency on the basis of a determination that
     the alternative training program is at least as effective in
     accomplishing the objectives of such guidelines and
     regulations.

  (b)  TRAINING OBJECTIVES.--Training under this section shall be
started within 60 days after the issuance of the regulations
described in subsection (c).  Such training shall be designed--

     (1) to enhance employees' awareness of the threats to and
     vulnerability of computer systems; and
     
     (2) to encourage the use of improved computer security
     practices.

  (c) REGULATIONS.--Within six months after the date of the
enactment of this Act, the Director of the Office of Personnel
Management shall issue regulations prescribing the procedures and
scope of the training to be provided Federal civilian employees
under subsection (a) and the manner in which such training is to
be carried out.


SEC. 6.  ADDITIONAL RESPONSIBILITIES FOR COMPUTER SYSTEMS SECURITY
         AND PRIVACY.

  (a) IDENTIFICATION OF SYSTEMS THAT CONTAIN SENSITIVE INFORMATION-
Within 6 months after the date of enactment of this Act, each
Federal agency shall identify each Federal computer system, and
system under development, which is within or under the supervision
of that agency and which contains sensitive information.

  (b) SECURITY PLAN.--Within one year after the date of enactment
of this Act, each such agency shall, consistent with the standards,
guidelines, policies, and regulations prescribed pursuant to
section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services
Act of 1949, establish a plan for the security and privacy of each
Federal computer system identified by that agency pursuant to
subsection (a) that is commensurate with the risk and magnitude or
the harm resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access
to or modification of the information contained in such system. 
Copies of each such plan shall be transmitted to the National
Bureau of Standards and the National Security Agency for advice and
comment.  A summary of such plan shall be included in the agency's
five-year plan required by section 3505 of title 44, United States
Code.  Such plan shall be subject to disapproval by the Director
of the Office of Management and Budget.  Such plan shall be revised
annually as necessary.


SEC. 7.  DEFINITIONS.

  As used in this Act, the terms "computer system", "Federal
computer system", "operator of a Federal computer system",
"sensitive information", and "Federal agency" have the meanings
given in section 20(d) of the National Bureau of Standards Act (as
added by section 3 of this Act).


SEC. 8.  RULES OF CONSTRUCTION OF ACT.

  Nothing in this Act, or in any amendment made by this Act, shall
be construed--

     (1) to constitute authority to withhold information sought
pursuant to section 552 of title 5, United States Code; or

     (2) to authorize any Federal agency to limit, restrict,
regulate, or control the collection, maintenance, disclosure, use,
transfer, or sale of any information (regardless of the medium in
which the information may be maintained) that is--

          (A)  privately-owned information;

          (B)  disclosable under section 552 of title 5, United
          States Code, or other law requiring or authorizing the
          public disclosure of information; or

          (C)  public domain information.

***************************************************************


                         I.  BACKGROUND

  Computers and information systems have so permeated today's
society that there is virtually no sector which does not rely
heavily on their use.  This includes the Federal Government, which
currently has over 17,000 medium- and large-scale computers and
will have almost 500,000 microcomputers by 1990, according to a
1985 report by the General Services Administration, entitled "ADP
Management of Information Systems".

  The Federal Government is the largest single user of computers
in the world.  Its investment in automated systems technology is
so large that about l.6 percent of the 1986 budget was spent on
automated data processing (ADP) equipment and services, or more
than 15 billion dollars.  This budget, included ADP for defense and
national security, education, national energy programs, social
welfare, and tax problems.

  As the role of the Federal Government has become broader, the
need to automate and the corresponding need to secure data also has
grown.  In recent years, Congress and the executive agencies have
directed their attention to Federal computer systems in a number
of areas, including investigating and commenting on their integrity
and security.  Both Section 111(f) of the Federal Property and
Administrative Service Act of 1949 (as amended by the Brooks Act
of 1965) and the Paperwork Reduction Act of 1980 represented
attempts by Congress to address the issues of automating
information in Federal agencies and creating an efficient method
of storing and disseminating this information.  In October 1984,
Congress passed the first Federal computer crime legislation, the
Counterfeit Access Device and Computer Fraud Act of 1984 (P.L. 98-
473).  That law has been amended by the Computer Fraud and Abuse
Act of 1986 (P.L. 99-474).  This law prohibited "unauthorized
access" into "Federal interest computers" affecting national
security data, financial data, and other data stored in these
computers.  In addition, penalties were established for pirated
"bulletin boards" containing information which might lead to the
fraud or abuse of data in a computer.

  Within the Federal Government several agencies have been charged
with the responsibility for establishing computer security controls
and standards.  The Office of Management and Budget (OMB) has
overall responsibility for computer security policy.  The General
Services Administration (GSA) also issues regulations for physical
security of computer facilities, and ensures that security hardware
and software meet certain technological and fiscal specifications. 
In defense and national security, the National Security Agency
(NSA) has traditionally been responsible for the security of
classified information, including that processed by and stored
within computers.  Recently, NSA has been given the responsibility
to establish and maintain technical standards for secure, or
"trusted" computers.  NSA does this through its administration of
the Department of Defense (DOD) National Computer Security Center. 
NSA also will work with industries at the DOD Computer Security
Center to develop security standards for private sector use.

  At the Department of Commerce, the National Bureau of Standards'
(NBS) Institute of Computer Science and Technology (ICST) has
developed computer and processing standards, such as the Data
Encryption Standard (DES), which protects data transferred between
automated information systems.  The Federal Information Processing
Standards (FIPS) developed by the ICST provide specific codes,
language, procedures, and techniques for Federal and private sector
information systems managers.  Also at the Department of Commerce,
the National Telecommunications and Information Administration
(NTIA) has the responsibility for analyzing, developing,
implementing and applying executive branch policy for
telecommunications in the Federal Government.


                      CURRENT FEDERAL ROLE

  This mixture of laws, regulations, and responsible agencies has
raised concern that Federal computer security policy is lacking
direction and forcefulness in some areas, yet has created
overlapping and duplication of effort in other areas.  Recently,
Federal regulations and directives have been issued and
congressional legislation has been introduced to address the lack
of coordination of Federal ADP systems.

  On March 15, 1985, OMB issued a draft circular intended "to
provide a general framework of management of information
resources."  This circular combined and updated previous OMB
circulars, including OMB Circular A-71 (originally issued in July
1978).  The final OMB circular, A130, was issued on December 12,
1985.  Appendix III of the circular addressed Federal Government
computer security.  Those responsible for implementing of this
circular include the Department of Commerce, Department of Defense,
General Services Administration, and the Office of Personnel
Management, in addition to OMB.

  On September 17, 1984, the executive branch issued National
Security Decision Directive 145 (NSDD-145), "National Policy on
Telecommunications and Automated Information Systems Security". 
This directive is aimed at safeguarding automated information
systems with a special focus on protecting those Federal systems
accessed via (and dependent on) network communications.  NSDD-145
creates a National Telecommunications and Information Systems
Security Committee (NTISSC), a panel of 22 voting representatives
from 12 defense/intelligence agencies and 10 civilian agencies. 
An Assistant Secretary of Defense chairs NTISSC, and the Director
of the National Security Agency acts as the National Manager for
implementing policy under NSDD-145.  The NTISSC is empowered to
issue operating policies to assure the security of
telecommunications and automated information systems that process
and communicate both classified national security information and
other sensitive information.

  On June 27, 1985, Representative Dan Glickman, then chairman of
the Subcommittee on Transportation, Aviation and Materials, House
Committee on Science and Technology, introduced H.R. 2889, the
Computer Security and Training Act of 1985.  The intent of this
legislation was to establish NBS as the focal point for developing
training guidelines for Federal employees who are involved in
management, operation, and use of automated information processing
systems.  This legislation was based in part on hearings which the
subcommittee conducted in 1983 and a 1984 subcommittee report which
had recommended increased ADP training and awareness in Federal
agencies.  The Subcommittee on Transportation, Aviation and
Materials held hearings on H.R. 2889 on September 24, 1984, June
17, 1985, and October 29 and jointly with the Subcommittee on
Science, Research and Technology on October 30, 1985.  At the end
of the 99th Congress, under House procedures, the bill was brought
up for consideration under suspension of rules, the bill failed to
obtain the two-thirds vote required and the bill went no further.

  On October 29, 1986, National Security Adviser John Poindexter
issued National Telecommunications Information Systems and Security
(NTISS) policy Directive No. 2.  This directive would have added
a new "sensitive but unclassified" category of Federal information,
setting new classification criteria for information formerly
unclassified.  It would not only have affected managers, users, and
programmers of information systems within the Federal Government,
but there was concern that it could have been extended to private
sector contractors of the Federal Government as well, potentially
restricting the type of information and data released.  However,
on March 16, 1987, National Security Adviser Frank Carlucci
rescinded NTISS Directive No. 2, following negotiations with the
committees having jurisdiction over H.R. 145.

  On January 6, 1987, Representative Dan Glickman introduced H.R.
145, the Computer Security act of 1987.  This legislation, based
in part on H.R. 2889 introduced during the 99th Congress would
assign the National Bureau of Standards responsibility for
developing standards and guidelines for the security of Federal
computer systems, drawing upon technical guidelines developed by
the National Security Agency, when such guide lines are consistent
with the requirements for protecting sensitive information.  H.R.
145 also provides for a Computer Systems Advisory Board to identify
emerging Federal computer security and privacy issues, advise NBS
on these issues, report its findings to the Office of Management
and Budget (OMB), NSA, and Congress.  The bill also would amend the
Brooks Act of 1965 by updating the term "computer"; require
establishment of security plans by all operators of Federal
computer systems that contain sensitive information; and require
mandatory periodic training for all persons involved in management,
use, or operation of Federal computer systems that contain
sensitive information.


****************************************************************

             II.  ISSUES RAISED DURING THE HEARINGS

  During the 99th Congress, the Subcommittee on Transportation,
Aviation and Materials held hearings on Federal computer and
communications privacy and security on September 24, 1984, June 27,
1985, and October 29 and jointly with the Subcommittee on Science,
Research and Technology on October 30, 1985.  During the 100th
Congress, the Subcommittee on Transportation, Aviation, and
Materials, and the Subcommittee on Science, Research and Technology
of the House Science, Space, and Technology Committee held hearings
on H.R. 145 on February 26, 1987.  The Subcommittee on
Transportation, Aviation, and Materials held an additional hearing
on May 19, 1987, before final consideration of H.R. 145 by the full
House Science, Space and Technology Committee.

  These hearings touched upon four major issues:  (1) the current
state of computer security in the Federal Government; (2) the role
of the National Security Agency (NSA) in setting Federal computer
security; (3) the issue of privacy and security, particularly with
a new "sensitive but unclassified" criteria; and (4) the role of
the Federal Government in adequately training Federal employees and
heightening awareness of computer security.


               FEDERAL COMPUTER CRIME AND SECURITY

99th Congress

  Over the course of the 99th Congress, there was a heightened
awareness both inside and outside the Federal Government that
current computer security measures were inadequate.  The American
Bar Association, the Inspector General's Office of the Department
of Health and Human Services, computer crime experts such as Donn
Parker, and industry representatives have repeatedly cited the lack
of management, controls, and coordination of computer security in
both the private sector and in the Federal Government.

  During the September 24, 1984 hearings, John Tompkins, chairman
of the Task Force on Computer Crime of the American Bar Association
(ABA), commented on a survey conducted by the ABA on the state of
computer crime in government and the private sector.  The ABA
report was one of the first extensive studies done on the number
of "known and verifiable losses" which have resulted from computer
crimes, and the results of the survey included responses from 13
Federal agencies and 28 State and local agencies.  Although the
results of the survey indicated a wide range of losses by
respondents, several consistent factors emerged:  that "insiders"
having access to computer systems are the more likely perpetrators
of fraud and abuse; that there is a proliferation of computers in
government; that such security systems as currently exist do not
facilitate detection of computer crimes; that security systems
themselves often are vulnerable and inadequate; and that a lack of
awareness and concern by the public as well as computer systems
managers, are contributing to these problems.  Mr. Tompkins noted
that, although the ABA did not state any formal recommendations,
the conclusions reached by the respondents to the ABA survey
indicated:  the need for Federal computer crime legislation; the
need to adequately train and supervise personnel in data
processing; and the large overall cost and expense of computer
fraud and abuse.

  Richard Kusserow, Inspector General for the Department of Health
and Human Services, also testified on the nature of fraud and abuse
in Federal computer systems.  AS Inspector General for the largest
Federal civil agency, Mr. Kusserow's office has been involved with
auditing computer systems, reducing costs, and insuring the
integrity of HHS ADP systems.  As Mr. Kusserow stated at the
September 24 hearings:

       We must ensure that agency managers in overseeing programs
     that use computerized systems, do audit the systems, do look
     and make sure that the controls are functioning, and that we
     in the inspector general community, using our auditors and
     investigators, follow up to make sure it's being done.  I
     think that in all of these areas is has not been done nearly
     enough.

  Also, as chairman of the President's Council on Integrity and
Efficiency investigating computer crime in the Federal Government,
Mr. Kusserow testified on September 24, 1984, and again on October
29, 1985, on a study he directed which examined computer-related
fraud and abuse in general, and a subsequent study in which the
Inspector General's office interviewed those who had been convicted
of Federal computer fraud and abuse.  The results of these studies
are consistent with the findings of the ABA study:  that Federal
computer fraud and abuse is often committed by insiders within the
Federal agency; that training for computer security and awareness
of vulnerabilities in computer systems were lacking; and that
internal controls for computer security need to be increased.  The
profile of Federal computer criminals shows that they are young,
considered good employees, and often use co-conspirators, that many
who commit these crimes never think about the consequences of being
caught, or if they consider the consequences, assess the risk of
being caught as minimal.  As Mr. Kusserow stated in the October 29
hearing:

       One of the most disturbing findings from this study is that
     the work environment provided the perpetrators with the
     opportunity to commit their crime.  We asked the perpetrators
     about computer security where they had committed their crime
     . . . Virtually all of them had been aware of security efforts
     but most said they had been weak.  So, they make the judgment
     that, although there may have been security efforts in their
     agencies, they were weak and could not be counted upon to act
     as a deterrence for them to committing the crime.

  The General Accounting Office also testified during the hearings
on June 27, 1985, and October 29 and 30, 1985.  GAO has conducted
several studies on a computer crime and security in the Federal
Government, including a 1985 survey of 25 computer systems in 17
Federal civil agencies, to evaluate the state of computer security
and integrity of these systems.  This survey was conducted by GAO
using two questionnaires and subsequent interviews, promising
anonymous to the agencies so the systems could not be compromised
after public disclosure.  GAO indicated that:

       Generally, the results of our survey showed that each of the
     systems is vulnerable to abuse, destruction, error, fraud, and
     waste.  Specifically we found that:  key management
     responsibilities were missing.  For example, many agencies do
     not use a risk management approach as part of implementing a
     security program; and actual safeguards needed to protect
     systems from potential threats were not always in place.  For
     example, computerized techniques, such as passwords, allowing
     access to systems were not periodically changed.

  GAO categorized Federal computer security methods into management
and three basic safeguard components:  physical, technical, and
administrative.  No agency met all of the management
responsibilities outlined in the questionnaire, and only five of
the 25 systems evaluated contained an element of physical,
technical and administrative control.  Only two of the systems
provide what GAO described as adequate training for computer
employees.  GAO further characterized the systems as very
vulnerable, and given the minimal oversight and coordination
between agencies, GAO found that there is a lack of a balanced
approach to security of Federal computer systems.

  The testimony by the ABA, the Inspector General's office of HHS,
and GAO clearly indicated that Federal systems are in danger
because of improper use and negligence.  Other witnesses from both
the public and private sector testified during the hearings that
they also found computer security in general and Federal computer
security specifically remains vulnerable and open to fraud and
abuse, despite stated efforts by representatives of the Federal
agencies to remedy this problem.

100th Congress

  After the hearings on H.R. 2889 during the 99th Congress, the
House Science and Technology Committee requested that GAO review
how successfully appropriate security controls are being
incorporated into mission-critical, sensitive systems now being
developed in Federal civilian agencies.  GAO proceeded to evaluate
nine Federal civilian agencies to determine the effectiveness of
computer security controls.

  GAO evaluators determined during the course of this study that
currently there is a lack of effective guidance for assessing
whether appropriate security controls are initiated during the
development of computer systems.  None of the nine agencies
reviewed treated information security as one of its functional
requirements.  According to GAO, six of the nine agencies studied
did not address, or inadequately addressed, the sensitivity of the
information to be handled in a computer system.  Eight of the nine
agencies performed no risk analysis of the computer systems in the
agency.

  Thomas B. Giammo, Associated Director, Information Management and
Technology Division of GAO stated during testimony:

       Mr. Chairman, our review suggests that the practices
     currently being used by civilian agencies in the development
     of mission-critical, sensitive systems will not assure that
     the appropriate security controls are being successfully
     incorporated into these systems.  Specifically, we reviewed
     the practices currently being used at nine civilian agencies
     in the development of nine specific systems.  We found that
     the practices in use at all nine agencies had permitted
     decisions critical to the specification, design, and
     construction of all nine systems to be made without adequate
     management consideration of important security issues.

  This evaluation of Federal civilian agencies' lack of computer
security planning and management supports the previous GAO study
on Federal civilian agency computer security.  It also corroborates
testimony from other witnesses during hearings on H.R. 145
regarding the need for incorporating security controls into
mission-sensitive critical computer systems.


           ROLE OF THE NATIONAL SECURITY AGENCY (NSA)

  With the introduction of NSDD-145, the prominent role of the NSA
in establishing Federal computer security in civilian agencies
became a subject of debate among computer security experts.  The
Subcommittee on Transportation, Aviation and Materials devoted an
entire day of hearings to this subject on June 27, 1985, during
which representatives from NSA and DOD testified.  The role of NSA
under NSDD-145 was a topic mentioned during the hearings on October
29 and 30, 1985.  The role of NSA under NSDD-145 was further
examined during hearings on H.R. 145 on February 26, 1987.


99th Congress

  Donald Latham, Chairman of the National Telecommunications and
Information Systems Security Committee (NTISSC), Walter Deeley,
Deputy Director for Communications Security, NSA, and Robert
Brotzman, Director, DOD National Computer Security Center,
testified on why NSDD-145 was necessary to coordinate Federal
computer security.  Citing a lack of overall coordination among
Federal agencies, the high risk of compromising, losing or
destroying Federal agency data, and the overall vulnerability of
Federal computer security systems, they emphasized that the NSA had
the experience and expertise to administer Federal computer
security programs.  As Mr. Latham stated:

       We have provided cryptographic devices for protection of
     classified data, as Mr. Deeley will explain further.  While
     we have done a reasonable job in some areas, there are still
     many areas that are left uncovered and there is more emphasis
     needed here.

       We have put in controls for tighter access to unclassified
     data through network access controls and things like this, so
     that the so-called hackers can't go in and just play havoc
     with our data.

       We are fostering very much a security awareness program. 
     We are instituting training programs at the national level as
     well as the local level, I'll say, within service schools and
     across the various agencies.  And we are looking at more
     rigorous ways of clearing people who have access to computer
     systems and telecommunications network security devices. 

  Other witnesses appearing before the subcommittee expressed
concerns that NSDD-145 would hamper efforts to adequately
administer Federal computer security.  One area of concern is that
NSDD-145 will create conflict with other Federal security
regulations, notably Transmittal Memorandum 1 to OMB Circular A-71
(which has since been embodied in OMB Circular A-130, published
December 12, 1985).  Although both NSDD-145 and the OMB circular
are broadly constructed, the emphasis in the OMB circular for
planning and implementing Federal computer security rests with
civil agencies, primarily with OMB and the Department of Commerce. 
In NSDD-145, the Director of NSA and the Secretary of Defense have
primary roles.  NSDD-145 does incorporate many of the lead Federal
agencies on its NTISSC panel; but not all agencies are included. 
When Warren Reed, Director, Information Management and Technology
Division, General Accounting Office, testified on the GAO survey
on Federal computer security, he stated that the issuance of NSDD-
145 might create confusion among the Federal agencies over which
agency has jurisdiction over security functions.  Mr. Reed stated
that this could be a large or small problem, and may interfere with
other Federal statutes and regulations which have given this
jurisdiction to NBS.  Raymond Wyrsch, Senior Attorney, Office of
General Counsel at GAO, stated:

       * * * we do have laws on the books, the Brooks Act and the
     Paperwork Reduction Act, and there are very distinct
     responsibilities that have been placed on these agencies,
     namely OMB has been given the general oversight authority, if
     you will to set government policy.

       * * * And I don't know if anyone is really in the position
     to say with any degree of conclusiveness now, on what are the
     other agencies supposed to do if you have inconsistent or
     conflicting guidance that may be issued.  There have been
     various pronouncements that have been made by the Secretary
     of Commerce over the years dealing with ADP standards.

  Representative Jack Brooks, Chairman of the Subcommittee on
Legislation and National Security of the House Government
Operations Committee, and author of the Brooks Act, highlighted
these concerns during his testimony on NSDD-145:  "NSA has a
propensity and a tendency to classify everything."  GAO witnesses
also expressed concern that a lack of definition of "unclassified
information considered sensitive" in civil agencies may be
interpreted either broadly or narrowly, significantly affecting how
agencies store and disseminate information contained in computer
and telecommunications systems.  However, Lt. Gen. Odom, Director
of NSA, has stated in a letter to Chairman Fuqua on February 25,
1986: ". . . the Systems Steering Group, the senior governmental
body created by NSDD-145 for information security matters, has
concluded that each government department or agency must make its
own determination as to what constitutes sensitive information to
that department or agency mission or operation."

  Other witnesses, including representatives from the American
Civil Liberties Union and the Institute of Electrical and
Electronics Engineers, expressed similar concerns over the
"unclassified but sensitive" categorization of computerized data
and how that will affect citizens' access to public information or
freedom to exchange scientific information.

  There has been some controversy over the review process for NSDD-
145.  Expressing concern that issuing National Security Decision
Directive 145 effectively circumvents the review process that OMB
Circular A-71 went through, Subcommittee Chairman Glickman noted
during testimony given on June 27, that a document which ordinarily
might be called a regulation, if labeled a national security
directive, may avoid the Administrative Procedures Act, all public
notification requirements, and Congressional oversight.  Also, Mr.
Richard P. Kusserow, Inspector General of HHS, stated at the
October 29 hearing that "I haven't seen it, and I have not had any
input in the process".  Still the review process spanned nearly a
year and Dr. Robert E. Conley, who was chairman of the Subgroup on
Telecommunications Security created under NSDD-145 while he was
with the Treasury Department, said at the same hearing that "we
invited all of the government agencies to attend the meetings". 
Thus, although there is no question that Federal computer security
is a vital national issue, use of NSDD-145 as an instrument for
setting policy, without legislative or agency debate and review,
has raised concerns in the Congress.

100th Congress

  During the 100th Congress, the debate regarding NSDD-145 and the
role of NSA in setting computer security policy for Federal
civilian agencies has continued.  H.R. 145 states that the
responsibility for developing standards and guidelines for the
security and privacy of Federal computer systems rests with NBS,
with technical advice and assistance coming from NSA "where
appropriate".  The hearings before the Subcommittee on
Transportation, Aviation, and Materials and the Subcommittee on
Science, Research and Technology on H.R. 145 at the beginning of
the 100th Congress continued to focus on the role of NSA oversight
in computer security among the Federal agencies.

  Donald Latham, Chairman of the National Telecommunications and
Information Systems Security Committee (NTISSC) and Lt. General
William Odom, Director of the National Security Agency, testified
at the February 26, 1987 hearings on the role of the NSA, the
function of NSDD-145, and the form of technical assistance which
the defense and military security agencies provide for the Federal
Government.  Also on February 26, 1987, Raymond Kammer, Deputy
Director of the National Bureau of Standards, testified before the
two Subcommittees on the role of NBS and his position on NTISS
Directive No. 2 and its effect on Federal information security.

  Mr. Latham's statement before the House Subcommittees outlined
the role of NSA under NSDD-145.  Mr. Latham stated that the
civilian agencies are represented on two committees created under
NSDD-145.  These include the Systems Security Steering Group which
consists entirely of civilian members of the President's Cabinet
(see table 1), which sets overall information security policy for
Federal agencies, and the National Telecommunications Information
Systems Security Committee (NTISSC) (see table 2 for membership),
under which NSA is the National Manager and assists NTISSC in
implementing actual Federal computer security.  Mr. Latham stated
during questioning from Subcommittee Members:

            TABLE 1.--SYSTEMS SECURITY STEERING GROUP

       Chairman:  The Honorable Frank C. Carlucci, Assistant to the
     President for National Security Affairs.
       Executive Secretary:  Lieutenant General William E. Odom,
     USA, National Manager for Telecommunications and Automated
     Information Systems Security.
       Member:  The Honorable George P. Shultz, Secretary of State;
     The Honorable James A. Baker III, Secretary of the Treasury;
     The Honorable Casper W. Weinberger, Secretary of Defense; The
     Honorable Edwin Meese III, Attorney General; The Honorable
     James C. Miller III, Director, Office of Management and
     Budget; and Robert Gates, Acting Director of Central
     Intelligence.

            TABLE 2.--NATIONAL TELECOMMUNICATIONS AND
         INFORMATION SYSTEMS SECURITY COMMITTEE (NTISSC)

       Chairman:  The Honorable Donald C. Latham, Assistant
     Secretary of Defense C3I.  
       Executive Secretary:  John C. Wobensmith.
       Members:  NSC, Department of State, Department of the
     Treasury, Department of Defense, Office of Management and
     Budget, Department of Justice, Department of Commerce,
     Department of Transportation, Department of Energy, Director
     of Central Intelligence, General Services Administration,
     Office of the Joint Chiefs of Staff, Department of the ARmy,
     Department of the Navy, Department of the Air Force, United
     States Marine Corps, National Security Agency, Defense
     Intelligence Agency, Federal Bureau of Investigation, Federal
     Emergency Management Agency, and National Communications
     System.
       Observers:  Federal Communications Commission, Intelligence
     Community Staff, Defense Communications Agency, National
     Aeronautics and Space Administration, Nuclear Regulatory
     Commission, Chairman, SAISS, and Chairman, STS.
       The Steering Group is chaired by the Assistant to the
     President for National Security Affairs and then is composed
     of all civilians from various cabinet level departments that
     are on the Steering Committee--Treasury, Defense, State, and
     so on--so that there is, in fact, at the very top of the NSDD-
     145 structure a group of cabinet level civilians who actually
     operate the mechanisms that are laid out in 145.

  General Odom, in his testimony before the Subcommittee, described
the role of the Department of Defense's National Computer Center
and the services this Center provides both military and civilian
agencies in the Federal Government.  Under NSDD-145, the Assistant
Secretary of Defense for Command, Control, Communications and
Intelligence (C31) chairs NTISSC.

  Both Mr. Latham and General Odom, while testifying on the
respective roles of NSA and DOD, stated that their main concern
with an enhanced role for NBS, as outlined in H.R. 145, would be
to duplicate efforts in computer security in the Federal
Government.  Both Mr. Latham and General Odom praised the role of
NBS in providing standards for Federal computer systems, including
security.  However, both felt that many of the responsibilities
outlined for NBS under H.R. 145 are identical to the
responsibilities already provided for under NSDD-145, and that NSA
and DOD currently are handling these responsibilities capably.  In
response to a question on how the respective roles of NSA and NBS
might be affected under H.R. 145, General Odom stated:

       Well, it is my general impression that it would give NBS
     responsibility for a lot of things we are now doing and would
     essentially build a duplication, presumably for two different
     sectors.  In other words, you're building computers that are
     secure for civilian agencies, non-military or intelligence
     activities, and you would be securing computers or developing
     a program for those in the Defense Department.

  However, despite the concern for duplication and potential
overlap of computer security technology and services, there are
those who are still concerned that civilian and defense and
military computer security policies in the Federal Government
should be separated.  Specifically, there is concern that, for the
sake of a unified Federal computer security policy, the military
and defense would gain preeminence over Federal civilian agencies. 
Representative Glickman stated in his opening remarks before the
first panel of witnesses. 

     * * * the basic concept of this bill, civilian preeminence in
     determining standards for classified information is the heart
     of what we are trying to do, not military preeminence * * *

  Raymond Kammer, Deputy Director of the National Bureau of
Standards, commented on the role of NBS in setting Federal computer
security, particularly the role of the Institute of Computer
Sciences and Technology at NBS in developing a civilian
telecommunications and computer security program.  Mr. Kammer
stated that he believed that H.R. 145, rather than causing
duplication between NBS and NSA, complemented the two agencies. 
According to Mr. Kammer:

       The bill removes the potential for conflict between the
     Department of Commerce and the Director of the National
     Security Agency (NSA) in his capacity as National Manager
     under National Security Directive 145 (NSDD 145).  Conflict
     has not yet arisen because the level of cooperation between
     NBS and the National Manager to develop security standards has
     been satisfactory.  We have worked well together.

  Mr. Kammer emphasized that there are some technical skills which
NSA has which NBS does not have, nor is likely to acquire.  Mr.
Kammer also responded to questioning on the NBS budget by stating
that a larger program involving reimbursable funding, in which
Federal agencies pay NBS directly for services contracted out,
would be an appropriate method for increasing the Federal civilian
computer security budget at NBS.

  David Pronko, President of PE Systems, a supplier of encryption
devices for both military and private sector communications, added
a private sector viewpoint.  He was asked to characterize the
relative strengths and weaknesses of NSA and NBS with respect to
providing security for military and civilian computers.  He said:

       From the communications security point of view, I feel that
     NSA has--my own personal view--a much more pragmatic approach
     and a more methodical approach on handling the communications
     security.  AT NBS, you have really more of a laissez faire
     approach to it, and here again, it is probably brought about
     by private industry working within that system.


                INFORMATION PRIVACY AND SECURITY

  During the Subcommittee hearings on the 99th Congress, several
questions were raised about a possible "sensitive but unclassified"
categorization of Federal information.  When NTISS Directive No.
2 was issued in late 1986, providing a mechanism for a "sensitive
but unclassified" category, interest and concern both in the
Federal Government and in the private sector grew.

  This concern was voiced by several witnesses during the hearings
on February 26, 1987.  The definitions of "sensitive but
unclassified" used in NTISS Directive No. 2 and in H.R. 145
initially appear similar.  H.R. 145 defines "sensitive" information
as "any information, the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access of
which could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct
of Federal programs . . . "  NTISS Directive No. 2 cited that
"sensitive" information is that information in which the
"disclosure, loss, misuse, alteration, or destruction could
adversely affect national security or other Federal Government
interests."  But NTISS Directive No. 2 goes on to add that
government interests may be those related, but not limited to:

     . . . the wide range of government or government-derived
     economic, human, financial, industrial, agricultural,
     technological, and law enforcement information, as well as the
     privacy or confidentiality of personal or commercial
     proprietary information provided to the U.S. Government by its
     citizens.

  This additional range of activities, along with the intent of
classifying this information as "sensitive", concerned many
witnesses during the hearings on H. 145.  Mr. Kammer of NBS stated:

       The definition of sensitive data that's contained in the
     Poindexter Directive is a totally--in my point of view, at
     least--is a totally inclusionary definition.  There is no data
     that anyone would spend money on that is not covered by that
     definition.  Therefore, civil data is covered; therefore, the
     Brooks Act and the Privacy Act are either in conflict with it,
     or one is superior to the other.

  One group of witnesses which responded to the definition of
"sensitive" information during the hearings on February 26, 1987
included Jack Simpson, President of Mead Data Central, Inc.;
Kenneth Allen, Senior Vice President, Government Relations,
Information Industry Association; Ms. Ceryl Helsing, Information
Security Manager, BankAmerica Corporation and Chairman, Data
Security Committee, American Bankers Association; and Mr. Geoffrey
Turner, Communications Security manager, BankAmerica Corporation. 
They raised concerns that NSA would apply the "sensitive but
unclassified" categorization to commercial databanks (such as
NEXIS), which provide a wide range of data on Federal Government
policies and laws; as well as raising concerns about the role of
NSA in recertifying the Data Encryption Standard (DES), a method
of encrypting data in information systems, developed by NBS.  NSA
had stated it would not recertify DES after 1988.

  Many commercial databases are online services in which a user,
gaining access to the database through a computer, can retrieve
information on a wide variety of subjects.  Corporations, news
media, Federal, State and Local governments, and the legal, medical
and accounting professions use these services for timely and
current information.  Providers of these services feel that
restrictions on the type of information which may be made available
to the general public will hurt that industry.  Mr. Simpson stated
in testimony:

       Such new restrictive and unwarranted policies and the
     unilateral control of the Defense Community threaten to bring
     this industry to a halt and would negate the significant
     productivity gains being made in many sectors of our economy
     including legal, financial, government, medical, and the
     scientific and technological community.

  Mr. Simpson and others also stated that they were not opposed to
the restriction of classified data by the national security and
defense communities in the Federal Government.  But Mr. Simpson
stated that no "magical transformation" occurs when unclassified
data is entered into a computer; if it is already unclassified in
print form, it does not become more important or crucial because
it is entered into a computer database.  Mr. Simpson opposed the
"sensitive" categorization in NTISS Directive No. 2, and supported
H.R. 145 during testimony.

  The failure to recertify DES and NSA also was criticized by
several witnesses during the February 26, 1986 hearings.  Failure
to recertify is seen by many in the private sector as an attempt
by NSA to infringe on a security process for transmitting data. 
Mr. Turner, commenting on the ability of BankAmerica to safely and
expeditiously transfer funds through DES, claimed that a failure
to recertify by NSA has led to a "slowdown" in the security of
electronic funds transfer and further encryption technology
development and use in the financial community.  Ms. Helsing also
echoed these concerns, and strongly supported the concept of a
Computer Security and Privacy Advisory Board, with some minor
changes, as recommended by H.R. 145, as a formal measure for
private sector communication with the Federal Government on such
issues as data encryption.

  Other witnesses were concerned that an expanded "sensitive but
unclassified" definition would impinge upon personal liberties, as
well as the free flow of information vital to scientific and
industrial development.  Mr. Jerry Berman of the American Civil
Liberties Union and Mr. John Richardson of the Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, testified during the 100th
Congress on this issue.

  Mr. Berman, in his opposition to NSDD-145 and NTISS Directive No.
2, testified that currently there are statutes which protect
classified information from disclosure:  "If it's classified,
protect it.  If it's proprietary, trade secrets, there are statutes
on the books."  Mr. Berman stated that a broad and vague definition
would lead to a restriction of information, less free access to
information, and less right to know, and he supported H.R. 145 for
passage into law.  Mr. Berman also stated that since NSA has no
public charter, that statutory power to NSA for categorizing
sensitive information would lead to a situation in which citizens
would not have redress to overturn decisions restricting sensitive
information.

  Mr. Richardson, also testifying on February 26, 1987, opposed
NTISS Directive No. 2, and supported H.R. 145, because of concerns
which the IEEE has that a new categorization of information as
sensitive might restrict the free flow of information vital to U.S.
economic survival.  Mr. Richardson stated:

       The IEEE thinks, in this regard, that the unabridged
     dissemination of unclassified scientific and technical
     information is crucial for the continued advancement of U.S.
     industry, and we oppose restraints on its exchange.

  Mr. Richardson stated that such exchanges would be severely
restricted under NTISS Directive No. 2.  He stated that both
government and non-government information might qualify for this
classification, and supported H.R. 145 as an alternative to
separate the protection of computer systems which deal with
national security information, from those computer systems dealing
with non-national security information.  Mr. Richardson also
expressed some dissatisfaction with the definition of "sensitive"
as outlined in H.R. 145, believing that it was, like the NTISS
definition, too broad and general.

  These witnesses, representing a variety of perspectives and
concerns, felt that NTISS Directive No. 2, with its expanded
definition of "sensitive" data, would impair the use of data bases,
the ability to encrypt data, the protection of civil liberties, and
the free flow of scientific and technical information.  All
supported the general intent of H.R. 145.  The subsequent
rescinding of NTISS Directive No. 2 in March, 1987, resulted in
part from this opposition over the nature and intent of this
directive.


           TRAINING FOR FEDERAL COMPUTER SYSTEMS USERS

  Testimony from the hearings during the 99th Congress emphasized
the need for greater training of personnel responsible for computer
security training of personnel in the Federal Government.  GAO,
ABA, the Inspector General of HHS, and others commented on the
current state of Federal computer training during the course of the
Subcommittee on Transportation, Aviation and Materials hearings.

  H.R. 2889, as introduced by Representative Glickman during the
99th Congress, would have established a focus within the Federal
Government at the National Bureau of Standards for computer
security research, and development of computer security guidelines. 
The intent of this provision was to ensure that agencies would
better train personnel in the vulnerabilities of computer and
communication systems.  On the last day of testimony before the two
subcommittees on October 30, 1985, witnesses dealt directly with
H.R. 2889 and the need for Federal computer security training.

  There is little argument that such training is needed or that in
some areas, that much is needed to supplement existing training
procedures.  Most of the witnesses testifying on the current state
of Federal computer security commented that computer security
training the Federal Government is either inadequate or nonexistent
and that such training is necessary.  William Franklin, Associate
Director, Information Management and Technology Division, GAO,
stated on October 30:

       There can be little question that extensive and continuing
     security research and training are essential if we are to gain
     reasonable assurance that our computerized information is
     properly safeguarded in storage, processing and transmission.

  However, there was concern that the creation of a new structure
within the Federal Government might add unnecessarily to its
overall cost and bureaucracy.  Several witnesses stated that
existing Federal computer training facilities, such as those at
NSA, should be used to train Federal employees.  Robert Brotzman,
Assistant Director for Computer Security at the National Computer
Security Center at NSA, described the security program at the
Computer Security Center.  This program assists civilian and
military agencies, as well as outside contractors with sensitive
data, to develop secure information and communication systems.  As
Mr. Brotzman stated:

       The knowledge base that we have now will support an
     effective training program, and it will support the
     substantial improvement in the security of computer systems
     operated by and for the United States Government.

  James Burrows, Director, Institute for Computer Sciences and
Technology (ICST), of the NBS, spoke on the computer training and
security programs at the ICST.  As part of its mandate to develop
computer security standards and guidelines, the ICST assists
Federal agencies in developing computer security programs.  This
includes both software and hardware development, system interfaces,
personal identification and authentication of users.  The
Department of Commerce opposed the structure of H.R. 2889 because
of its interpretation that the Brooks Act and other legislation
makes a Federal computer training and awareness mandate for NBS
unnecessary.  However, Mr. Burrows did state that NSDD-145 could
be "slightly confusing in who has control" of overall Federal
security management among the agencies.  Mr. Burrows also stated
that, to date, NSDD-145 has had little adverse effect on NBS'
activities in computer security and training.

  Several of the witnesses did speak in favor of Federal computer
training legislation, although they also suggested changes in the
language and intent of H.R. 2889.  Donn Parker, a computer crime
and security expert at SRI International, also spoke on October 30
on computer security in general, while testifying on H.R. 2889. 
Mr. Parker made several observations:  that it is the information,
not the technology, which needs security; that information must be
considered secure before it goes into the computer; that technology
controls to date are inadequate--it is the management of "human
controls" which need improvement; that most information systems
employees consider security a detriment to productivity, therefore,
that measures must be taken to incorporate computer security into
personnel performance evaluations; that each individual must be
held accountable for taking security precautions, to ensure that
these measures are taken; that advisory and counseling provisions
within an organization can short-circuit the stresses and problems
which may drive someone to commit a computer crime; that all
information systems workers, not just computer programmers, should
be trained in securing systems; and that training should be
broadened to include a wider range of potential vulnerabilities,
including the full civil, military, and private sector prospective
of computer training and awareness.

  William Franklin of GAO also addressed H.R. 2889:

       We endorse the bill's purpose in requiring the National
     Bureau of Standards to establish and conduct a computer
     security research program in the Federal Government and the
     requirement that each Federal agency provide mandatory
     periodic training in computer security.

  Testimony during the 100th Congress also touched upon the current
state of computer security and the need for training of Federal
employees.  This issue was discussed specifically during the May
19, 1987 testimony by GAO of its investigation of the computer
security policies of nine Federal agencies.  Other witnesses,
during the hearings on February 26, 1987, on H.R. 145, stated that
the overall responsibility for civilian Federal computer security
policies should rest in the civilian agencies.  Under H.R. 145, the
focus for training civilian Federal agency personnel for computer
security again would be placed with the National Bureau of
Standards.  The need for a strong computer security training
program for Federal employees is still seen as a necessary and
vital aspect of ensuring Federal computer security.

  David Pronko, President of PE Systems, responded to a question
about whether NSA or NBS could provide the training envisioned in
H.R. 145.

       At this stage, from what I've seen and in my earlier
     comments, I'm not sure either has a leg on the other as far
     as the computer security training right now.  It seems that
     the NSA within the last few years has gained a foot hold in
     that arena, due to their programs.


****************************************************************


                   III.  NEED FOR LEGISLATION

  There are several key principles the Committee seeks to emphasize
by this legislation:

  1.  Computer crime in the Federal Government appears to be much
more pervasive and serious an issue than previously assumed. 
Descriptions of computer criminals as "insiders" by ABA, GAO, the
Inspector General of HHS, and others may imply that many Federal
computer users represent potential risks of fraud and abuse.

  2.  Security measures in a number of agencies are very vulnerable
to abuse and fraud.  Only five of 25 Federal computer systems
surveyed by GAO contained minimum safeguards, and only two of 25
systems offered formal training sessions for computer users.

  3.  There is a need for coordinated guidance for security of
sensitive information in computers.  There is a perception that
NSDD-145 could further complicate a situation which already is
unclear; that is Federal agencies are currently required to follow
existing laws and regulations, such as the Brooks Act, the
Paperwork Reduction Act, and the OMB circular, to set guidelines
and standards for computer security.

  4.  NSDD-145 can be interpreted to give the national security
community too great a role in setting computer security standards
for civil agencies.  Although the Administration has indicated its
intention to address this issue, the Committee felt it is important
to pursue a legislative remedy to establish a civilian authority
to develop standards relating to sensitive, but unclassified data.

  5.  Training of Federal personnel in ADP security is a critical
issue to ensure security in Federal agencies.  Yet many Federal
agencies do not take advantage of available training to remedy this
problem.  A stronger, more active computer training and awareness
program is needed to address this issue in the civil agencies of
the Federal Government.

  6.  Greater emphasis should be given to cooperation between the
military and civil agencies as well as the private sector in
setting computer security and training goals.  This can be
accomplished by fostering greater communication and cooperation
between the NBS and NSA in setting overall Federal computer policy.


**************************************************************


                  IV.  EXPLANATION OF THE BILL

                             PURPOSE

  The purpose of H.R. 145, the Computer Security Act of 1987, as
amended, is to improve the security and privacy of sensitive
information in Federal computer systems.  It achieves this purpose
through improved training, aimed at raising the awareness of
Federal workers about computer system security, by establishing a
focal point within the government for developing computer system
security standards and guidelines to protect sensitive information,
and by requiring agencies to establish computer system security
plans.

  To explain what these mean, it is first necessary to examine
several underlying concepts that define and scope the boundaries
of the bill's coverage.  First, the primary objective of the bill
is controlling unauthorized use of the information in Federal
computer systems, rather than merely protecting the computer
systems themselves.  Although computer hardware and software have
real value and certainly must be safeguarded, it is the data
stored, manipulated, displayed and transmitted by computer systems
that represent the greatest vulnerability.  Nevertheless, computer
systems are the instrumentality through which security measures are
usually applied.  Therefore, the bill makes distinctions both about
which computer systems are included as well as about what kinds of
information are subject to the bill's provisions.

  Second, the term "computer system" as used throughout the bill
is defined to be essentially identical to the term "automatic data
processing equipment" in Section 111 of the Federal Property and
Administrative Services Act of 1949 (Brooks Act).  A computer
system is described structurally to include traditional hardware
(computers and ancillary equipment), software, firmware, procedures
for use of the system by people, services intended to provide
support to the operation of the system, and related resources as
defined in regulations issued by the Administrator of General
Services.  A computer system is also described functionally to
include any equipment or interconnected system or subsystems used
in the automatic acquisition, storage, manipulation, management,
movement, control, display, switching, interchange, transmission,
or reception of data or information.

  The term "federal computer system" is used to delineate the reach
of the bill to include federal agencies, contractors of federal
agencies, and other organizations that process information using
a computer system on behalf of the federal government to accomplish
a federal government function.  The latter category is limited to
cases where there is a direct federal interest.  Examples would
include state agencies that disburse federal funds, monitor
compliance with federal regulations on behalf of the federal
government, collect statistical information for the purpose of
federal funding decisions, or act in some other way as a direct
extension of the federal government.  The measures used for
protecting sensitive information in such cases, just as elsewhere,
must be cost effectively applied and commensurate with the risk and
magnitude of harm.  The term "operator of a federal computer
system" denotes an agency or institution that owns or otherwise
possesses a federal computer system, rather than an individual who
physically operates the machine.  The term "sensitive information"
is used to limit the kinds of information which are covered by the
bill.  It is intended to guide the National Bureau of Standards as
to the kinds of information it should address in the standards
development process.  It is not intended to authorize establishment
of a formal new category of information.  (See discussion on Rules
of Construction.)  Sensitive information is defined as unclassified
information which, if lost, misused, accessed or modified in an
unauthorized way, could adversely affect the national interest the
conduct of federal programs or the privacy of individuals.* 
Examples include information which if modified, destroyed or
disclosed in an unauthorized manner could cause:

     Loss of Life;

     Loss of property or funds by unlawful means;

     Violation of personal privacy or civil rights;

     Gaining of an unfair commercial advantage;

     Loss of advanced technology, useful to a competitor; or

     Disclosure of proprietary information entrusted to the
     government.

  The definition of sensitive information allows the possibility
that some unclassified information may not be sensitive.  Each
operator of a federal computer system must make a determination (as
described later) as to which unclassified information in its
possession is sensitive.  Sensitive information does not include
nor does the bill apply to classified information for which
extensive standards-setting authority already exists.  These
mechanisms are unaffected by H.R. 145.


                  ADDITIONS TO NBS ORGANIC ACT

  H.R. 145 amends the Act of March 3, 1901, creating the National
Bureau of Standards, to add the mission of developing standards,
guidelines and associated methods and techniques for computer
systems to the list of authorized activities of the agency.  The
reason for this language is to provide specific authorization
for activities that are widely acknowledged as necessary in the
computer age, but which are conducted currently under general
authorities contained in the Act.  It is intended to authorize NBS
to study the means of automatic computation (computer science)
independent of the technology involved.  Therefore, this
clarification of NBS' Organic Act sets out the NBS mission in
computer science in general and does not focus on computer
security.

_______________

  * But which has not been specifically authorized under criteria
established by Executive Order or an Act of Congress to be kept
secret in the interest of national defense or foreign policy.  The bill also adds three new sections to the Act of March 3,
1901.  Section 20 provides a hierarchy enumeration of NBS'
responsibilities.  At the top of the hierarchy is the mission of 
developing standards, and associated methods and techniques for
computer systems generally.  An example would be the "Open Systems
Interconnection" (OSI) standards for computer networking, which the
Bureau develops technically (with extensive private sector input)
and presents to the American National Standards Institute, and
through it to the International Standards Organization, for
adoption.  This statement of responsibility is intended to conform
Section 20 with the above addition to the list of authorized
activities.

  At the next hierarchical level NBS is responsible for developing
uniform standards and guidelines, in all areas other than security,
for federal computer systems.  As before, this delineation of
responsibility is intended to conform Section 20 and to provide
specific authority for activities that are currently carried out
under general provisions of the Organic Act.  The product of this
effort is the Federal Information Processing Standards (FIPS) which
are used government-wide.

  In current practice, some computer standards developed by NBS
become compulsory under authority of OMB pursuant to the Brooks Act
and the Paperwork Reduction Act.  The process outlined in H.R. 145-
-which includes standards development by NBS and subsequent
promulgation by the Secretary of Commerce under redrafted authority
in the Brooks Act (to be described later)--is essentially the same
as current practice, but is spelled out more explicitly.

  Systems involving intelligence activities, cryptologic activities
related to national security, direct command and control of
military forces, equipment that is integral to a weapons system or
direct fulfillment of military or intelligence missions (except
routine administrative and business functions) are exempted from
this provision.  Such systems are highly specialized in their
functions and have been traditionally exempted from government-wide
standards and regulations applying to general purpose computer
systems.  Therefore, the boundary of NBS' responsibility for non-
security standards is drawn so as to exclude such defense-related,
special-purpose systems.

  The third hierarchial level spells out explicitly, and thereby
gives special emphasis to, responsibility for standards and
guidelines in the computer security arena.  It assigns to NBS
responsibility within the federal government for developing
technical, management, physical and administrative standards and
guidelines designed to achieve, in a cost-effective way, the
security and privacy of sensitive information in federal computer
systems.  The purpose of the standards and guidelines is to control
loss and unauthorized modification or disclosure of sensitive
information and to prevent computer-related fraud and abuse.

  Certain computer systems are exempted from this provision,
regardless of the kind of information they contain.  There are two
categories of such exempted systems.  The first is the same list
of defense and intelligence-related systems that were exempted in
the previous subsection, dealing with non-security standards.  The
second category includes systems that are operated at all times
under rules designed to protect classified information.  The chief
effect of this exemption is to exclude classified systems from
coverage by this subsection of the bill.  Also exempted are mixed
systems--those systems containing classified information at certain
times and unclassified information at other times--provided such
systems are operated at all times under the rules for protecting
classified information.  The purpose of this exemption is to avoid
imposition of a second, less stringent set of security standards-
-the NBS standards--for the unclassified operations of a mixed
system.  Further relief for mixed systems is provided in the
amendment to the Brooks Act, allowing system operators to employ
standards, other than the NBS standards, if such standards are more
stringent.  For example, an operator of a mixed system might use
a subset of the classified rules for his unclassified operations,
if the subset were more stringent than the NBS standards.

  One reason for the assignment of responsibility to NBS for
developing federal computer system security standards and
guidelines for sensitive information derives from the committee's
concern about the implementation of National Security Decision
Directive-145.  As indicated previously, this directive established
an interagency committee--the National Telecommunications and
Information Systems Security Committee (NTISSC).  The function of
the NTISSC is to devise operating policies needed to assure the
security of telecommunications and automated information systems
that process and communicate both classified national security
information and other sensitive government national security
information.  Policies developed by NTISSC would apply government-
wide.

  While supporting the need for a focal point to deal with the
government computer security problem, the Committee is concerned
about the perception that the NTISSC favors military and
intelligence agencies.  It is also concerned about how broadly
NTISSC might interpret its authority over "other sensitive national
security information".  For this reason, H.R. 145 creates a
civilian counterpart, within NBS, for setting policy with regard
to unclassified information.  In so doing, the bill has the
additional effect of specifically limiting the purview of the
NTISSC to systems containing classified information and cancelling
the authority contained in NSDD-145 for systems containing
unclassified information.  NBS is required to work closely with
other agencies and institutions, such as NSA, both to avoid
duplication and to assure that its standards and guidelines are
consistent and compatible with standards and guidelines developed
for classified systems; but the final authority for developing the
standards and guidelines for sensitive information rests with the
NBS.

  Note that the previous subsection dealt with developing non-
security standards and guidelines, most of which affect hardware
and software performance and interfaces.  Accordingly, the bill's
jurisdiction in that area is defined by the universe of federal
computer systems, as limited by certain exceptions.  In this
subsection, the bill deals with security standards and guidelines,
which apply more properly to protecting information.  Therefore,
the bill addresses unclassified (but sensitive) information in
federal computer systems, but with certain systems exempted.

  The method for promulgating federal computer system security
standards and guidelines is the same as for non-security standards
and guidelines.  NBS submits them to the Secretary of Commerce
along with recommendations regarding the extent to which they
should be made compulsory and binding.  The Secretary of Commerce,
under redrafted authority in the Brooks Act (to be explained
later), then promulgates standards and guidelines, making those
standards compulsory and binding that he determines are necessary
to improve the efficiency of operation or security and privacy of
federal computer systems.

  An additional responsibility of NBS is to devise guidelines for
use by agencies in training employees in security awareness and
good security practice.  Section 5 of H.R. 145 requires each
Federal agency to provide for the training of certain employees of
each operator of a Federal computer system that is within or under
the supervision of that agency.

  Also, as part of its responsibility for developing computer
standards and guidelines, NBS is required to devise validation
procedures to evaluate the effectiveness of the standards and
guidelines.  This is not an enforcement or compliance determining
function.  Rather, it provides the ability for operators to
determine if the standards and guidelines are achieving their
desired purpose.  NBS is to maintain liaison (as it now does) with
users of the standards, to assure their workability.

  In fulfilling these responsibilities, NBS is authorized to give
technical assistance to the General Services Administration, the
Office of Personnel Management, operators of federal computer
systems and the private sector in implementing the standards and
guidelines promulgated pursuant to the bill.  Also, NBS is
authorized to perform research and conduct studies to determine the
nature and extent of the vulnerabilities of computer systems and
to devise techniques to protect in a cost effective way, the
information contained in them, and to coordinate with other
agencies (including NSA) which perform such research, to gain the
benefits of their efforts.
  Finally, in carrying out its responsibilities to develop
standards and guidelines for protecting sensitive information in
federal computer systems and to perform research, NBS is required
to draw upon technical security guidelines developed by the NSA to
the extent that NBS determines that NSA's guidelines are consistent
with the requirements of civil agencies.  The purpose of this
language is to prevent unnecessary duplication and promote the
highest degree of cooperation between these two agencies.  NBS will
treat NSA technical security guidelines as advisory, however, and
in cases where civil agency needs will best be served by standards
that are not consistent with NSA guidelines, NBS may develop
standards that best satisfy the agencies' needs.

  It is important to note the computer security standards and
guidelines developed pursuant to H.R. 145 are intended to protect
sensitive information in Federal computer systems.  Nevertheless,
these standards and guidelines will strongly influence security
measures implemented in the private sector.  For this reason, NBS
should consider the effect of its standards on the ability of U.S.
computer system manufacturers to remain competitive in the
international marketplace.

  A new Section 21 of the NBS Organic Act establishes a twelve-
member Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory Board within
the Department of Commerce.  The chief purpose of the Board is to
assure that NBS receives qualified input from those likely to be
affected by its standards and guidelines, both in government and
the private sector.  Specifically, the duties of the Board are to
identify emerging managerial, technical, administrative and
physical safeguard issues relative to computer systems security and
privacy and to advise the NBS and the Secretary of Commerce on
security and privacy issues pertaining to federal computer systems.

  Members of the Board are to be appointed by the Secretary of
Commerce and are to come from both inside and outside the federal
government and have qualifications as specified in the bill.

  Specifically, the Board's complement is basically divided between
federal government and non-federal government members.

  The non-federal government segment is further divided into two
sub-entities, namely, (1) industry and (2) technology or other
related disciplines.

  The industry segment is intended to be for hardware, and/or
software producers and systems integrators; at least one of whom
is representative of small or medium sized companies, and one of
whom is representative of a large company.

  The technology or other related disciplines segment could include
those eminent in academia, as well as the private sector producers
of data bases, the financial community and other sophisticated
users of the technology.  Members will not be paid for their
services, other than for reimbursement of travel expenses.  The
Board may use personnel from NBS or other agencies of the federal
government for the purpose of staff support, with the consent of
the respective agency head.

  The Board may conduct business with as few as seven members
present.  Findings must be reported to the Secretary of Commerce,
the Director of the Office of management and Budget, the Director
of the National Security Agency, and the appropriate Committees of
Congress.

  Section 23 is a housekeeping change.  It adds a short title to
the NBS Organic Act for ease of reference.


                   AMENDMENT TO THE BROOKS ACT

  H.R. 145 contains a redrafted version of section 111(d) of the
Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949.  The
chief purpose is to establish an orderly process for promulgating
standards and guidelines pertaining to Federal computer systems. 
Specifically, the Secretary of Commerce is charged with issuing
standards and guidelines based on the standards and guidelines
developed by NBS, pursuant to two subsections in the amendment to
the NBS Act.  As explained, those subsections formalize NBS'
responsibility for developing both non-security and security
standards and guidelines.  The Secretary is authorized to make
certain standards compulsory and binding as needed to improve the
efficiency of operation or security and privacy of federal computer
systems.  The President may disapprove or modify the standards and
guidelines if he determines such action to be in the public
interest.

  As described earlier, the amendment contains relief from strict
compliance with these standards, when agencies already employ
standards that are more stringent.  An example is the instance
where the unclassified operations of a mixed system are conducted
under a subset of the rules used during classified operations,
provided the subset is tougher than the standards mandated by the
Secretary.

  Further relief is provided by language authorizing the Secretary
of Commerce to waive the compulsory standards when compliance would
adversely affect an operator's mission or cause major financial
impact on the operator that is not offset by government-wide
savings.  The Secretary may delegate this authority to agency heads
when necessary and desirable to achieve timely and effective
implementation of measures to improve federal computer system
security and privacy.  Agency heads may redelegate this authority
only to certain high level officials, designated pursuant to the
Paperwork Reduction Act for the purpose of carrying out the
agencies information management activities under that Act.
  The need for delegation authority arises from Committee concerns
about the administrative burden on NBS.  Under normal procedures,
the Secretary can be expected to rely on NBS for technical
evaluation of any requests for waiver.  The Committee expects NBS
to devote the bulk of its energy to producing computer systems
standards, rather than to such compliance determinations. 
Accordingly, the amendment to the Brooks Act allows the Secretary
flexibility to delegate the waiver authority.

  The amendment ties the process for developing and promulgating
computer system standards to the requirement for an integrated
information resources management system, as set forth in the
Paperwork Reduction Act.  To achieve this, the Administrator of
General Services is charged with developing and implementing
policies on federal computer systems and revising the federal
information resources management regulations to reflect the
standards and guidelines emanating from the Secretary of Commerce.


                            TRAINING

  One of the fundamental purposes of H.R. 145 is improved computer
security awareness and use of accepted computer security practice
by all persons involved in management, use, or operation of federal
computer systems that contain sensitive information.  As indicated,
the Committee found in its hearings that training in these areas
is a particular weakness at most agencies.  A GAO study revealed,
for example, that only two of twenty-five major federal computer
systems surveyed had adequate training programs.  For this reason,
the bill contains a requirement that each Federal agency provide
for the periodic training of all employees involved with the
management, use or operation of each Federal computer system within
or under the supervision of that agency.  The objectives of the
training are to enhance employees' awareness of the threats and
vulnerabilities of computer systems and to encourage the use of
improved security practices.

  The process envisioned in the bill starts with NBS, which is
responsible for developing training guidelines based on its
research and study of vulnerabilities and countermeasures.  Within
six months of enactment and using these guidelines, the Office of
Personnel Management must issue regulations covering such areas as
training objectives for various categories of employee, general
guidance concerning course content and frequency of training. 
Strictly speaking, the regulations issued by OPM under this section
apply only to Federal civilian employees.  The overall effect of
the section, however, is to extend the regulations' applicability
to employees of all operators of a Federal computer system as
defined in the bill.  The bill specifies that training begin within
60 days after the issuance of regulations by OPM.  Each Federal
agency is responsible for making provisions for the training of its
own employees as well as those of contractors and other
organizations that it supervises.  Training should be tailored to
the particular operating conditions and needs of each operator. 
Agencies may provide for the training in a variety of ways.  For
example, an agency may use its internal training capabilities or
the services of training providers such as OPM or private
companies.  For the employees of contractors and other
organizations under the supervision of an agency, the agency may
use any available contractual or management instrument to require
the operator to conduct periodic training in accordance with the
NBS training guidelines and the OPM regulations.  In so doing, the
Committee expects that the agency will require the operator to bear
the costs associated with furnishing the training.  An agency head
may approve an alternative training program which he determines to
be at least as effective in accomplishing the objectives of the NBS
guidelines and OPM regulations.

  A key determination upon which many provisions of the bill depend
is the identification of which Federal computer systems contain
sensitive information.  By definition, the search for such systems
is restricted to systems containing unclassified information. 
Some, but possibly not all of these systems will be determined to
contain unclassified-sensitive information.  The philosophy
reflected in the bill is that each Federal agency is best equipped
to make that determination relative to its own mission and
circumstances.  Therefore, the bill calls on each agency to make
a determination for each computer system under its control, within
six months of enactment.  The determination should be based on the
definition of "sensitive" contained in the bill and use the
additional guidance in the section on purpose in this report.

  Within one year of enactment, each agency must also establish a
plan for the security and privacy of each computer system so
identified.  Plans are to be based on the standards and guidelines
issued by the Secretary of Commerce pursuant to the Brooks Act, or
any waivers received.  This requirement applies only to those
computer systems subject to the provision of that Act.  Plans are
also to be commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm
resulting from the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or
modification of the information being protected.  Copies of the
plans must be submitted to the National Bureau of Standards and the
National Security Agency for advise and comment and to the Office
of Management and Budget, which has the authority to disapprove the
plan.  

  Implicit in the authority to disapprove security plans is
responsibility for oversight of the identification process and
compliance with the security plans as approved.  Thus, OMB is the
watchdog over the key implementation step in the bill.


                      RULES OF CONSTRUCTION

  The purpose of this section is to make it explicitly clear that
the Computer Security Act has no bearing on the public availability
or use of information.  The designation of information as sensitive
[or as subject to protection] under the Computer Security Act is
not a determination that the information is not subject to public
disclosure.

  The Computer Security Act is strictly neutral with respect to
public disclosure of information.  Any information that was
required to be disclosed under the Freedom of Information Act or
other laws before enactment of the Computer Security Act will still
have to be disclosed after enactment.  Requests for information
that was previously subject to withholding and that continues to
qualify for withholding may be denied.

  Also, the Act may not be construed to expand the authority of
any Federal agency to limit, restrict, regulate, or otherwise
control the collection, maintenance, disclosure, use, transfer, or
sale of (1) any privately-owned information; (2) any information
disclosable under the Freedom of Information Act or other law
requiring or authorizing the public disclosure of information by
Federal agencies; or (3) any public domain information.  This
restriction on government authority applies regardless of the
medium in which the information may be maintained.  For example,
in recent months, interest has been expressed by some Federal
officials in restricting or monitoring use of unclassified, private
sector computerized databases such as LEXIS and NEXIS.  This
section makes it explicitly clear that no such authority is granted
to agencies by the Computer Security Act.



*****************************************************************


                V.  SECTIONAL ANALYSIS--H.R. 145

  Section 1.  Short Title

  Section 2.  Purpose:  Sets forth the Congressional declaration
that improving the security and privacy of federal computer systems
is in the public interest and states Congressional intent to
institute a means for establishing minimum acceptable security
practices for such systems, without limiting the scope of security
measures already planned or in use.

  The specific purposes of the Act are to assign the National
Bureau of Standards responsibility for developing standards and
guidelines for Federal computer systems, including standards and
guidelines for the cost-effective security and privacy of sensitive
information in Federal computer systems drawing upon the technical
advice and assistance of the National Security Agency, where
appropriate; to provide for promulgating such standards and
guidelines through the Federal Property and Administrative Services
Act of 1949; to require all operators of Federal computer systems
that contain sensitive information to establish security plans; and
to require mandatory periodic training for all persons involved in
management, use or operation of Federal computer systems that
contain sensitive information.
  Section 3.  Establishment of Computer Standards Program.  Amends
the Act of March 3, 1901 to add to the mission of the National
Bureau of Standards the study of computer systems, as defined in
section 20(d) of the NBS Act, and their use to control machinery
and processes. 

  Inserts a new Section 20(a) stating the National Bureau of
Standards shall:

       (1) have the mission of developing standards, guidelines,
     and associated methods and techniques for computer systems;

       (2) develop uniform standards and guidelines for Federal
     computer systems, except those systems excluded by section
     2315 of title 10, United States Code, or section 3502(2) of
     title 44, United States Code;

       (3) have responsibility within the Federal Government for
     developing technical, management, physical and administrative
     standards and guidelines for the cost-effective security and
     privacy of sensitive information in Federal computer systems
     except--

            (A) those systems excluded by section 2315 of title 10,
          United States Code; and

            (B) those systems which are protected at all times by
          procedures established for information which has been
          specially authorized under criteria established by an
          Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret
          in the interest of national defense or foreign policy;

       (4) submit standards and guidelines developed pursuant to
     paragraphs (2) and (3) above, along with recommendations as
     to the extent to which these should be made compulsory and
     binding, to the Secretary of Commerce, for promulgation under
     section 111 of the Federal Property and Administrative
     Services Act of 1949;

       (5) develop guidelines for use by operators of Federal
     computer systems that contain sensitive information in
     training their employees in security awareness and accepted
     security practice, as required by section 5 of the Computer
     Security Act of 1987; and

       (6) develop validation procedures for, and evaluate the
     effectiveness of, standards and guidelines developed pursuant
     to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) above through research and
     liaison with other government and private agencies.

  Inserts a new Section 20(b) authorizing the National Bureau of
Standards to:
       (1) assist the private sector in using and applying the
     results of the programs and activities under this section;

       (2) make recommendations to, assist and coordinate with
     other Federal agencies, as appropriate, in carrying out this
     Act;

       (3) provide, as requested, technical assistance to operators
     of Federal computer systems in implementing the standards and
     guidelines promulgated pursuant to this Act;

       (4) perform research and to conduct studies, as needed, to
     determine the nature and extent of the vulnerabilities of, and
     to devise techniques for the cost effective security and
     privacy of sensitive information in Federal computer systems;
     and

       (5) coordinate closely with other agencies and offices
     (including, but not limited to, the Departments of Defense and
     Energy, the National Security Agency, the General Accounting
     Office, the Office of Technology Assessment, and the Office
     of Management and Budget) to assure--

           (A) maximum use of all existing and planned programs,
          materials, studies and reports relating to computer
          systems security and privacy, in order to avoid
          unnecessary and costly duplication of effort; and 

           (B) to the maximum extent feasible, that standards
          developed by the National Bureau of Standards are
          consistent and compatible with standards and procedures
          developed for the protection of information in Federal
          computer systems which is authorized under criteria
          established by Executive order or an Act of Congress to
          be kept secret in the interest of national defense or
          foreign policy.

  Inserts a new Section 20(c) that requires the National Bureau of
Standards to draw upon computer system technical security
guidelines developed by the National Security Agency to the extent
that the National Bureau of Standards determines that such
guidelines are consistent with the requirements for protecting
sensitive information in Federal computer systems.

  Inserts a new Section 20(d) that defines--

     (1) the term "computer system" as--

            (A) any equipment or interconnected system or
          subsystems of equipment that is used in the automatic
          acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement,
          control, display, switching, interchange, transmission,
          or reception, of data information; and

            (b) includes--

               (i) computers;
               (ii) ancillary equipment;
               (iii) software, firmware, and similar procedures;
               (iv) services, including support services; and
               (v) related resources as defined by regulations
               issued by the Administrator for General Services
               pursuant to section 111 of the Federal Property and
               Administrative Services Act of 1949;

       (2) the term "Federal computer system" as a computer system
     operated by a Federal agency or by a contractor of a Federal
     agency or other organization that processes information using
     a computer system on behalf of the Federal Government to
     accomplish a Federal Government function;

       (3) the term "operator of a Federal computer system" as a
     Federal agency, or other organization that processes
     information using a computer system on behalf of the Federal
     Government to accomplish a Federal Government function;

       (4) the term "sensitive information" as any information, the
     loss, misuse, or unauthorized access or modification of which
     could adversely affect the national interest or the conduct
     of Federal programs, or the privacy to which individuals are
     entitled under section 552 of title 5, United States Code (the
     Privacy Act), but which has not been specifically authorized
     under criteria established by an Executive order or an Act of
     Congress to be kept secret in the interest of national defense
     or foreign policy; and

       (5) the term "Federal agency" as having the meaning given
     such term by section 3(b) of the Federal Property and
     Administrative Services Act of 1949.

  Inserts a new section 21(a) establishing a Computer System
Security and Privacy Advisory Board, with a chairman to be
appointed by the Secretary of Commerce and twelve members as
follows:

       (1) four members from outside the Federal Government who are
     eminent in the computer or telecommunications industry, at
     least one of whom is representative of small or medium sized
     companies in such industry;

       (2) four members from outside the Federal Government who are
     eminent in the computer or telecommunications industry, at
     least one of whom is representative of small or medium sized
     companies in such industry;

       (2) four members from outside the Federal Government who are
     eminent in the computer or telecommunications technology, or
     related disciplines, but who are not employed by or
     representative of a producer of computer or telecommunications
     equipment; and

       (3) four members from the Federal Government who have
     computer systems management experience, including experience
     in computer systems security and privacy, at least one of whom
     shall be from the National Security Agency.

  Inserts a new Section 21(b) stating that the duties of the Board
shall be:

       (1) to identify emerging managerial, technical,
     administrative, and physical safeguard issues relative to
     computer systems security and privacy;

       (2) to advise the Bureau of Standards and the Secretary of
     Commerce on security and privacy issues pertaining to Federal
     computer systems; and

       (3) to report its findings to the Secretary of Commerce, the
     Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the Director
     of the National Security Agency, and the appropriate
     Committees of the Congress.

  Inserts a new Section 21(b) stating that the term of office of
each member of the Board shall be four years, except that--

       (1) of the initial members, three shall be appointed for
     terms of one year, three shall be appointed for terms of two
     years, three shall be appointed for terms of three years, and
     three shall be appointed for terms of four years; and

       (2) any member appointed to fill a vacancy in the Board
     shall serve for the remainder of the term for which his
     predecessor was appointed.

  Inserts a new Section 21(d) prohibiting the Board from acting in
the absence of a quorum, which shall consist of seven members.

  Inserts a new section 21(e) stating that Members of the Board,
other than full-time employees of the Federal Government, while
attending meetings of such committees or while otherwise performing
duties at the request of the Board Chairman while away from their
homes or a regular place of business, may be allowed travel
expenses in accordance with subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5,
United States Code.

  Inserts a new Section 21(f) that authorizes the Board in carrying
out its functions, to use staff personnel from the National Bureau
of Standards or any other agency of the Federal Government with the
consent of the head of the agency. 
  
  Adds a new Section 23 which establishes a short title for the Act
of March 3, 1901, henceforth to be known as the "National Bureau
of Standards Act".

  Section 4.  Amendment to the Brooks Act.  Replaces Section 11(d)
of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of 1949
with new language that:

       (1) empowers the Secretary of Commerce, on the basis of
     standards and guidelines developed by the National Bureau of
     Standards pursuant to section 20(a)(2) and (3) of the National
     Bureau of Standards Act, to promulgate standards and
     guidelines pertaining to Federal computer systems, making such
     standards compulsory and binding to the extent to which the
     Secretary determines necessary to improve the efficiency of
     operation of security and privacy of Federal computer systems;

       (2) authorizes the head of a Federal agency to employ
     standards for the cost effective security and privacy of
     sensitive information in a Federal computer system within or
     under the supervision of that agency that are more stringent
     than the standards promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce,
     if such standards contain, at a minimum, the provisions of
     those applicable standards made compulsory and binding by the
     Secretary of Commerce.

       (3) provides that the standards determined to be compulsory
     and binding may be waived by the Secretary of Commerce in
     writing upon a determination that compliance would adversely
     affect the accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a
     Federal computer system, or cause a major adverse financial
     impact on the operator which is not offset by government-wide
     savings.  The Secretary may delegate to the head of one or
     more Federal agencies authority to waive such standards to the
     extent to which the Secretary determines such action to be
     necessary and desirable to allow for timely and effective
     implementation of Federal computer systems standards.  The
     head of such agency may redelegate such authority only to a
     senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b) of
     title 44, United States Code.  Notice of each such waiver and
     delegation shall be promptly transmitted to the Committee on
     Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the
     Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate;

       (4) directs the Administrator of the General Services
     Administration to revise the Federal information resources
     management regulations to be consistent with the standards and
     guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of Commerce; and
       (5) defines the terms "Federal computer system" and
     "operator of a Federal computer system" as having the meanings
     given in section 20(d) of the National Bureau of Standards
     Act.

  Section 5.  Federal Computer System Security Training.  Requires
each Federal agency to provide for the mandatory periodic training
in computer security awareness and accepted computer security
practice of all employees who are involved with the management,
use of, or operation of, each Federal computer system within or
under the supervision of that agency.

       (1) Directs that training be provided in accordance with the
     guidelines developed by the National Bureau of Standards and
     in accordance with regulations issued by the Office of
     Personnel Management for Federal civilian employees; or

       (2) Provided by an alternative training program approved by
     the head of that agency on the basis of a determination that
     the alternative training program is at least as effective in
     accomplishing the objectives of such guidelines and
     regulations.

  Training under this section shall be started within 60 days after
the issuance of the regulations.  Such training shall be designed-

       (1) to enhance employees' awareness of the threats to and
     vulnerability of computer systems; and

       (2) to encourage the use of improved security practices.

  Directs that within six months after the date of the enactment
of this Act, the Director of the Office of Personnel Management
shall issue regulations prescribing the procedures and scope of the
training to be provided and the manner in which such training is
to be carried out.

  Section 6.  Additional Responsibilities for Computer Systems
Security and Privacy.  Directs that within 6 months after the date
of enactment each Federal agency shall identify each Federal
computer system, and system under development, which is within or
under the supervision of that agency and which contains sensitive
information.

  Provides that within one year after the date of enactment of this
Act, each such agency shall, consistent with the standards,
guidelines, policies, and regulations prescribed pursuant to
section 111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services
Act of 1949, establish a plan for the security and privacy of each
Federal computer system identified by that agency that is
commensurate with the risk and magnitude of the harm resulting from
the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to or modification of the
information contained in such system.  Copies of each such plan
shall be transmitted to the National Bureau of Standards and the
National Security Agency for advice and comment.  A summary of such
plan shall be included in the agency's five-year plan required by
section 3505 of title 44, United States Code.  Such plan shall be
subject to disapproval by the Director of the Office of Management
and Budget.  Such plan shall be revised annually as necessary.

  Section 7.  Definitions.  Defines the terms "computer system",
"Federal computer system", "operator of a Federal computer system",
"sensitive information", and "Federal agency" as having the
meanings given in section 20(d) of the National Bureau of Standards
Act (as added by section 3 of this Act).

  Section 8.  Rules of Construction of Act.  States that nothing
in this Act, or in any amendment made by this Act, shall be
construed--

       (1) to constitute authority to withhold information sought
     pursuant to section 552 of title 5, United States Code; or

       (2) to authorize the collection, maintenance, disclosure,
     use, transfer, or sale of any information (regardless of the
     medium in which the information may be maintained) that is--
     
          (A) privately-owned information;

          (B) disclosable under section 552 of title 5, United
          States Code, or other law requiring or authorizing the
          public disclosure of information; or

          (C) public domain information.


***************************************************************


             VI.  EFFECT OF LEGISLATION ON INFLATION

  In accordance with Rule XI, Clause 2(l)(4), of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, this legislation is assessed to have no
adverse inflationary effect on prices and costs in the operation
of the national economy.


**************************************************************


     VII.  COMMITTEE OVERSIGHT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS

  Pursuant to Rule XI, Clause 2(l)(3)(A), and under the authority
of Rule X, Clause 2(b)(l) and Clause 3(f), of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, the following statement on oversight
activities is made:

  The Committee's oversight findings are incorporated in the
recommendations contained in the present bill and report.


****************************************************************


      VIII.  OVERSIGHT FINDINGS AND RECOMMENDATIONS BY THE
               COMMITTEE ON GOVERNMENT OPERATIONS


  Pursuant to Rule XI, Clause 2(l)(3)(D), and under the authority
of Rule X, Clause 2(c)(2), of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, the following statement on oversight activities
by the Committee on Government Operations is made:

  The Committee's oversight findings are reflected in the
recommendations contained in the bill as reported by that Committee
and the accompanying report.



*****************************************************************


               IX.  BUDGET ANALYSIS AND PROJECTION


  The bill provides for new authorization rather than new budget
authority and consequently the provisions of Section 308(a) of the
Congressional Budget Act are not applicable.


*****************************************************************


          X.  CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COST ESTIMATE

  Pursuant to Section 403 of the Congressional Budget Act of 1974
and Rule XI, Clause 2(l)(3) of the Rules of the House of
Representatives, the report of the Congressional Budget Office
follows:


           CONGRESSIONAL BUDGET OFFICE COSTS ESTIMATE

     1.  Bill number:  H.R. 145
     2.  Bill title:  Computer Security Act of 1987.
     3.  Bill status:  As ordered reported by the House Committee
on Science, Space, and Technology, May 20, 1987.
     4.  Bill purpose:  H.R. 145 would require the National Bureau
of Standards (NBS) to establish a computer security standards
program for those computer systems subject to the Brooks Act.  The
bill directs NBS to develop government-wide standards and
guidelines, training programs, and validation standards to evaluate
the effectiveness of computer security standards; and to work with
the National Security Agency (NSA) and other agencies in developing
these standards and guidelines and conducting research and studies. 
Based on recommendations submitted by the NBS, the Secretary of
Commerce would be required to promulgate standards and guidelines
for computer security.  The bill would also establish a 13-member
Computer System Security and Privacy Advisory Board composed of
representatives of other federal agencies and the private sector.

  Within six months after the date of enactment, H.R. 145 would
require all federal agencies to identify each computer system that
contains sensitive data.  Each agency would be required to
establish a plan for the security of each computer and related
system previously identified within a year after the date of
enactment, and to revise it annually as necessary.  The bill also
requires mandatory periodic training in computer security for all
federal agency employees who manage, use or operate computer
systems.  Each federal agency would also be required to provide for
similar training for certain employees of private contractors and
other organizations, such as state and local governments, that
process information on behalf of the federal government.
 
     5.  Estimated cost to the Federal Government:  CBO estimates
that enactment of this bill would cost NBS about $4 million to $5
million annually beginning in fiscal year 1988.  Additional costs
for planning and training in computer security by all agencies
throughout the federal government would probably cost $20 million
to $25 million in 1988 and $15 million to $20 million in each
fiscal year thereafter.  To the extent that this legislation would
reduce fraud or other financial losses, some savings could also
result from enactment of this bill.  It is not possible to quantify
these potential savings at this time.

  Basis of Estimate:  Under the National Security Decision
Directive (NSDD) 145, which became effective in September 1984, the
President gave the National Security Agency (NSA) responsibility
for ensuring the security of all classified and certain other
sensitive information transmitted by federql computers or
telecommunications systems.  If enacted, H.E. 145 would assign some
of this authority to NBS, mainly in the area of unclassified data. 
Although under current guidelines it is expected that most federal
agencies, with assistance from NSA, would have strengthened
security efforts consistent with the directive, this bill would
enhance the role of NBS and would also impose new requirements upon
federal agencies and their contractors in the area of computer
security.

  National Bureau of Standards.--Assuming enactment of H.R. 145 and
any necessary appropriations by October 1, 1987, the expanded role
of NBS in computer security management and training is estimated
to cost about $2 million annually beginning in 1988.  Based on
information from NBS, an estimated $2 million to $3 million
annually may also be needed for research, beginning in 1988.  This
assumes that NBS would expand its management and oversight role,
but would also receive assistance and information from the National
Computer Security Center (NCSC) within the Department of Defense
(DoD).

  Government-wide computer security plans.--The level of computer
security varies greatly among the approximately 80 federal
entities, including about 1,300 different organizations that would
be affected by this legislation.  The cost of identifying all
sensitive computer systems and developing an appropriate plan for
facility, application and personnel security would thus vary
greatly from agency to agency, depending upon the agency's current
level of security, the size and number of sites, and the resources
and expertise available to implement this provision.

  CBO has not been able to contact each major federal entity to
determine the cost of identifying and developing these plans for
computer security.  Based on the information available, it is
expected that most agencies would probably assign existing
personnel and resources to this task in order to meet the one-year
deadline imposed by H.R. 145.  If approximately 10,000 plans were
developed, each requiring about 1-2 work weeks of effort by agency
personnel, and two and one-half work days of review by NBS, NSA,
and the Office of Management and Budget (OBM), the cost spread
among the various federal agencies would be $10 million to $20
million over the fiscal years 1988 and 1989.

  Government-wide training.--Currently, training resources in the
area of computer security are scattered throughout the federal
government.  A few civilian agencies, such as the Department of
Energy, have developed their own computer security training for
both classified and unclassified systems.  Most agencies, however,
send employees to commercial courses or those offered by other
federal agencies, such as the General Services Administration
(GSA), the Office of Personnel Management (OPM), the Department of
Agriculture Graduate School, or NSA.

  H.R. 145 would require mandatory training for all federal and
contractor personnel who manage, use or operate computer systems. 
The cost of such training depends on the number of people involved
and the kind of training provided.  Based on information from a
number of agencies, it is expected that roughly half of all
government and contractor employees, or about 3 million employees,
would initially receive some type of training as a result of the
bill.  Subsequently, training would be provided to most new
employees, and retraining would be required only periodically.

  It is expected that most training in the area of computer
security would become decentralized, with each agency responsible
for developing its own programs, although some centralized training
for smaller agencies and in specialized program areas would remain. 
The NCSC has developed a data base of educational opportunities
offered by government, universities and private sources that is
available to agencies.  Training courses are relatively expensive,
however.  They currently cost about $50 to $200 per day per person
(not including development costs) and typically are offered to
technical personnel who attend a three-to-five day session.  In an
effort to reduce training costs, NCSC is developing training
packages that will be available on tape or film, sharply reducing
the training cost per person.

  Based on the information from NCSC, GSA, OPM, and OMB, CBO made
a number of assumptions about the amounts and types of training
that would be required as a result of enactment of H.R. 145.  The
resulting estimates provide a rough estimate of the possible
additional cost of training, but should not be considered precise.

  Within three years after the date of enactment, it is assumed
that about 90 percent of the estimated 3 million employees affected
by the bill would receive some type of computer security awareness
training.  Assuming the availability of training modules and other
low-cost products, it is expected that the cost for this type of
training would have no significant budget impact over and above the
cost of maintaining good information sysstems, which is now the
responsibility of each agency.  It is estimated that about 10
percent of the 3 million employees, or 300,000, would require more
formalized training.  Assuming that about three-quarters of these
individuals (about one-half from DoD) would have received training
under current law, then about 75,000 employees would like require
training as a result of this bill.  Three days of specialized
training, at an average cost of $100 per day, for 75,000 persons
would cost $20 million to #25 million over several years.  After
the initial training, costs for retraining and training of new
personnel are expecsted to cost about $5 million annually.

  Finally, it is assumed that about 250 civilian employees would
gradually be recruited and/or trained to evaluate the technical
protection capabilities of industry and government-developed
systems, and to train other agency personnel.  This type of
training, according to NCSC, takes two to three years.  At an
average cost of $60,000 per year, including overhead, it is
estimated that this type of support staff would cost the feceral
government about $15 million annually, once fully implemented.

     6.  Estimated cost to State and local governments:  H.R. 145
would require training in computer security for non-federal as well
as federal operators of computer systems that process data on
behalf of the federal government.  This requirement would include
state or local governments that are involved in such activities as
monitoring compliance with federal regulations, disbursing federal
funds, and collecting or maintaining data for ultimate federal use. 
Based on information from the committee, these non-federal
operators would be expected to bear the cost of furnishing the
training.  Because no complete inventory of the relevant computer
systems at the state and local level exists, it is not possible at
this time to estimate with precision the costs to state and local
governments of providing this training.  Based on the limited
information available, we expect that total costs incurred by state
and local governments are likely to be less than $25 million
annually.

     7.  Estimate comparison:  None

     8.  Previous CBO estimate:  On May 4, 1987, CBO transmitted
to the House Committee on Government Operations a cost estimate for
H.R. 145, as ordered reported by that committee on April 7, 1987. 
The estimated cost of each version of H.R. 145 is the same.  

     9.  Estimate prepared by:  Carol Cohen
    10.  Estimate approved by:  C.G. Nuckols, for James L. Blum,
Assistant Director for Budget Analysis.


****************************************************************


                  XI.  ADMINISTRATION POSITION

                    EXECUTIVE OFFICE OF THE PRESIDENT
                         OFFICE OF MANAGEMENT AND BUDGET
                                   Washington, DC, May 12, 1987

Hon. Robert A. Roe,
Chairman, Committee on Science, Space and Technology,
U.S. House of Representatives, Washington, DC.

  DEAR MR. CHAIRMAN:  I am pleased that through intensive
consultations between the Administration and the Congress great
progress has been made toward agreement on a Computer Security Act
of 1987.  I hope that this statement of Administration views will
assists in offering construction solutions to areas where further
improvements are desirable.

  As we have reviewed H.R. 145, a primary concern has been to
assure that the roles of the National Security Agency (NSA) are
discharged in a manner that will promote a sound public policy and
result in efficient/cost effective, and productive solutions.  In
this regard it is the Administration's position that NBS in so far
as they are available and consistent with the requirements of civil
departments and agencies to protect data processed in their
systems.  When developing technical security guidelines, NSA will
consult with NBS to determine how its efforts can best support such
requirements.  We believe this would avoid costly duplication of
effort.

  Computer security standards, like other computer standards, will
be developed in accordance with established NBS procedures.  In
this regard the technical security guidelines provided by NSA to
NBS will be treated as advisory and subject to appropriate NBS
review.  In cases where civil agency needs will best be served by
standards that are not consistent with NSA technical guidelines,
the Secretary of Commerce will have authority to issue standards
that best satisfy the agencies' needs.  At the same time agencies
will retain the option to ask for Presidential review of standards
issued by the Department of Commerce do not appear to be consistent
with U.S. public interest, including that of our national security. 
I am enclosing proposed changes to the present text of H.R. 145
which are consistent with the NBS-NSA relationship outlined above
and make several minor changes that would further improve the bill.

  In closing, I want to assure you that a reported bill within the
parameters outlined in this letter will have the Administration's
support.
     
     Sincerely yours,

                                   JAMES C. MILLER III, Director


****************************************************************


     XII. CHANGES IN EXISTING LAW MADE BY THE BILL, AS REPORTED

     In compliance with clause 3 of rule XIII of the Rules of the
House of Representatives, changes in existing law made by the bill,
as reported, are shown as follows (existing law proposed to be
omitted is enclosed in black brackets, new matter is printed in
italic, existing law in which no change is proposed is shown in
roman):

                      ACT OF MARCH 3, 1901

               AN ACT To establish the National Bureau of Standards

     *         *         *         *         *         *         *

  SEC. 2. The Secretary of Commerce (hereinafter referred to as the
"Secretary") is authorized to undertake the following functions:
  (a) * * *

     *         *         *         *         *         *         *

  (f)  Invention and development of devices to serve special needs
of the Government.
  
  In carrying out the functions enumerated in this section, the
Secretary is authorized to undertake the following activities and
similar ones for which need may arise in the operations of
Government agencies, scientific institutions, and industrial
enterprises:

          (1) * * *


          *         *         *         *         *         *    *

          (18)  the prosecution of such research in engineering,
     mathematics, and the physical sciences as may be
     necessary to obtain basic data pertinent to the functions
     specified herein; [and]

          (19)  the compilation and publication of general
     scientific and technical data resulting from the performance
     of the functions specified herein or from other sources when
     such data are of importance to scientific or manufacturing
     interests or to the general public, and are not available
     elsewhere, including demonstration of the results of the
     Bureau's work by exhibits or otherwise as may be deemed most
     effective, and including the use of National Bureau of
     Standards scientific or technical personnel for part-time or
     intermittent teaching and training activities at educational
     institutions of higher learning as part of and incidental to
     their official duties and without additional compensation
     other than that provided by law [.]; and 

          (20)  the study of computer systems (as that term is
     defined in section 20(d) of the Act) and their use to control
     machinery and processes.

          *         *         *         *         *         *    *

  SEC 20.(a)  The National Bureau of Standards shall--

          (1)  have the mission of developing standards,
     guidelines, and associated methods and techniques for computer
     systems;

          (2)  except as described in paragraph (3) of this
     subsection (relating to security standards), develop uniform
     standards and guidelines for Federal computer systems, except
     those systems excluded by section 2315 of title 10, United
     States Code, or section 3502(2) of title 44, United States
     Code;

          (3)  have responsibility within the Federal Government
     for developing technical, management, physical, and
     administrative standards and guidelines for the cost-effective
     security and privacy of sensitive information in Federal
     computer systems except- 

          (A)  those systems excluded by section 2315 of title 10,
          United State Code, or section 3502(2) of title 44, United
          States Code; and

     

           (B)  those systems which are protected at all times by
          procedures established for information which has been
          specifically authorized under criteria established by an
          Executive order or an Act of Congress to be kept secret
          in the interest of national defense or foreign policy,
          the primary purpose of which standards and guidelines
          shall be to control loss and unauthorized modification
          or disclosure of sensitive information in such systems
          and to prevent computer-related fraud and misuse;

          (4)  submit standards and guidelines developed pursuant
     to paragraphs (2) and (3) of this subsection, along with
     recommendations as to the extent to which these should be made
     compulsory and binding, to the Secretary of Commerce for
     promulgation under section 111(d) of the Federal Property and
     Administrative Services Act of 1949;

          (5)  develop guidelines for use by operators of Federal
     computer systems that contain sensitive information in
     training their employees in security awareness and accepted
     security practice, as required by section 5 of the Computer
     Security Act of 1987; and

          (6)  develop validation procedures for, and evaluate the
     effectiveness of, standards and guidelines developed pursuant
     to paragraphs (1), (2), and (3) of this subsection through
     research and liaison with other government and private
     agencies.f

  (b) In fulfilling subsection (a) of this section, the National
Bureau of Standards is authorized-

          (1) to assist the private sector, upon request, in using
     and apply the results of the programs and activities under
     this section;

          (2)  to make recommendations, as appropriate, to the
     Administrator of General Services on policies and regulations
     proposed pursuant to section 111(d) of the Federal Property
     and Administrative Services Act of 1949;

          (3)  as requested, to provide to operators of Federal
     computer systems technical assistance in implementing the
     standards and guidelines promulgated pursuant to section
     111(d) of the Federal Property and Administrative Services Act
     of 1949;

          (4)  to assist, as appropriate, the Office of Personnel
     Management in developing regulations pertaining to training,
     as required by section 5 of the Computer Security Act of 1987;

          (5)  to perform research and to conduct studies, as
     needed, to determine the nature and extent of the
     vulnerabilities of, and to devise techniques for the cost
     effective security and privacy of sensitive information in
     Federal computer system; and

          (6)  to coordinate closely with other agencies and
     offices (including, but not limited to, the Departments of
     Defense and Energy, the National Security Agency, the General
     Accounting office, the Office of Technology Assessment, and
     the Office of Management and Budget)--

          (A)  to assure maximum use of all existing and planned
          programs, materials, studies, and reports relating to
          computer systems security and privacy, in order to avoid
          unnecessary and costly duplication of effort; and

          (B)  to assure, to the maximum extent feasible, that
          standards developed pursuant to subsection (a) (3) and
          (5) are consistent and compatible with standards and
          procedures developed for the protection of information
          in Federal computer systems which is authorized under
          criteria established by Executive order or an Act of
          Congress to be kept secret in the interest of National
          defense or foreign policy.

     (c)  For the purposes of-

       (1)  developing standards and guidelines for the protection
     of sensitive information in Federal computer systems under
     subsections (a)(1) and (a)(3), and

       (2)  performing research nd conducting studies under
     subsection (b)(5),

     the National Bureau of Standards shall draw upon computer
     system technical security guidelines developed by the National
     Security Agency to the extent that the National Bureaus of
     Standards determines that such guidelines are consistent with
     the requirements for protecting sensitive information in
     Federal computer systems.

     (d)  As used in this section-

            (1)  the term "computer system"-

            (A)  means any equipment or interconnected system or
          subsystems of equipment that is used in the automatic
          acquisition, storage, manipulation, management, movement,
          control, display, switching, interchange, transmission,
          or reception, of data or information; and

                 (B)  includes--

                    (i) computers;
                    (ii) ancillary equipment;
                    (iii) software, firmware, and similar
                    procedures;
                    (iv) services, including support
                    services; and
                    (v) related resources as defined by
                    regulations issued by the Administrator
                    for General Services pursuant to 
                    section 111 of the Federal Property and
                    Administrative Services Act of 1949;

          (2)  the term "Federal computer system"--

                 (A)  means a computer system operated by a
               Federal agency or by a contractor of a Federal
               agency or other organization that processes
               information (using a computer system) on behalf of
               the Federal Government to accomplish a Federal
               function; and

                 (B)  includes automatic data processing equipment
               as that term is defined in section 111(a)(2) of the
               Federal Property and Administrative Services Act of
               1949;

          (3)  the term "operator of a Federal computer system"
          means a Federal agency, contractor of a Federal agency,
          or other organization that processes information using
          a computer system on behalf of the Federal Government to
          accomplish a Federal function;

          (4)  the term "sensitive information" means any
          information, the loss, misuse, or unauthorized access to
          or modification of which could adversely affect the
          national interest or the conduct of Federal programs, or
          the privacy to which individuals are entitled under
          section 552a of title 5, United States Code (the Privacy
          Act), but which has not been specifically authorized
          under criteria established by an Executive order or an
          Act of Congress to be kept secret in the interest of
          national defense or foreign policy; and

          (5)  the term "Federal agency" has the meaning given
          such term by section 3(b) of the Federal Property and
          Administrative Services Act of 1949.

  SEC. 21.  (a)  There is hereby established a Computer System
Security and Privacy Advisory Board within the Department of
Commerce.  The Secretary of Commerce shall appoint the chairman of
the Board.  The Board shall be composed of twelve additional
members appointed by the Secretary of Commerce as follows:

          (1)  four members from outside the Federal Government
          who are eminent in the computer or telecommunications
          industry, at least one of whom is representative of
          small or medium sized companies in such industries;

          (2) four members from outside the Federal Government who
          are eminent in the fields of computer or
          telecommunications technology, or related disciplines,
          but who are not employed by or representative of a
          producer of computer or telecommunications equipment;
          and

          (3) four members from the Federal Government who have
          computer systems management experience, including
          experience in computer systems security and privacy, at
          least one of whom shall be from the National Security
          Agency.

     (b) The duties of the Board shall be--

          (1) to identify emerging managerial, technical,
          administrative, and physical safeguard issues relative
          to computer systems security and privacy; 

          (2) to advise the Bureau of Standards and the Secretary
          of Commerce on security and privacy issues pertaining to
          Federal computer systems; and

          (3) to report its findings to the Secretary of Commerce,
          the Director of the Office of Management and Budget, the
          Director of the National Security Agency, and the
          appropriate Committees of the Congress.

     (c) The term of office of each member of the Board shall be
four years, except that--

          (1) of the initial members, three shall be appointed for
          terms of one year, three shall be appointed for terms of
          two years, three shall be appointed for terms of three
          years, and three shall be appointed for terms of four
          years; and

          (2) any member appointed to fill a vacancy in the Board
          shall serve for the remainder of the term for which his
          predecessor was appointed.

     (d) The Board shall not act in the absence of a quorum, which
shall consist of seven members.

     (e) Members of the Board, other than full-time employees of
the Federal Government while attending meetings of such committees
or while otherwise performing duties at the request of the Board
Chairman while away from their homes or a regular place of
business, may be allowed travel expenses in accordance with
subchapter I of chapter 57 of title 5, United States Code.

     (f) To provide the staff services necessary to assist the
Board in carrying out its functions, the Board may utilize
personnel from the National Bureau of Standards or any other
agency of the Federal Government with the consent of the head of
the agency.

     (g) As used in this section, the terms "computer system" and
"Federal computer system" have the meanings given in section 20(d)
of this Act." 

  SEC. 23.  This Act may be cited as the National Bureau of
Standards Act.


     SECTION 111 OF THE FEDERAL PROPERTY AND ADMINISTRATIVE
                      SERVICES ACT OF 1949

               AUTOMATIC DATA PROCESSING EQUIPMENT

  SEC. 111. (a) * * *

     *         *         *         *         *         *         *

  [(d)  The Secretary of Commerce is authorized (1) to provide
agencies, and the Administrator of General Services in the
exercise of the authority delegated in this section, with
scientific and technological advisory services relating to
automatic data processing and related systems, and (2) to make
appropriate recommendations to the President relating to the
establishment of uniform Federal automatic data processing
standards.  The Secretary of Commerce is authorized to undertake
the necessary research in the sciences and technologies of
automatic data processing computer and related systems, as may be
required under provisions of this subsection.]

  (d)(1)  The Secretary of Commerce shall, on the basis of
standards and guidelines developed by the National Bureau of
Standards pursuant to section 20(a) (2) and (3) of the National
Bureau of Standards Act, promulgate standards and guidelines
pertaining to Federal computer systems, making such standards
compulsory and binding to the extent to which the Secretary
determines necessary to improve the efficiency of operation or
security and privacy of Federal computer systems.  The President
may disapprove or modify such standards and guidelines if he
determines such action to be in the public interest.  The
President's authority to disapprove or modify such standards and
guidelines may not be delegated.  Notice of such disapproval or
modification shall be submitted promptly to the Committee on
Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be
published prompt in the Federal Register.  Upon receiving notice
of such disapproval or modification, the Secretary of Commerce
shall immediately rescind or modify such standards or guidelines
as directed by the president.

  (2)  The head of a Federal agency may employ standards for the
cost effective security and privacy of sensitive information in a
Federal computer system with in or under the supervision of that
agency that are more stringent than the standards promulgated by
the Secretary of Commerce, if such standards contain, at a
minimum, the provisions of those applicable standards made
compulsory and binding by the Secretary of Commerce.

  (3)  The standards determined to be compulsory and binding may
be waived by the Secretary of Commerce in writing upon a
determination that compliance would adversely affect the
accomplishment of the mission of an operator of a Federal computer
system, or cause a major adverse financial impact on the operator
which is not offset by government-wide savings  The Secretary may
delegate to the head of one or more Federal agencies authority to
waive such standards to the extent to which the Secretary
determines such action to be necessary and desirable to allow for
timely and effective implementation of Federal computer systems
standards.  The head of such agency may redelegate such authority
only to a senior official designated pursuant to section 3506(b)
of title 44, United States Code.  Notice of each such waiver and
delegation shall be transmitted promptly to the Committee on
Government Operations of the House of Representatives and the
Committee on Governmental Affairs of the Senate and shall be
published promptly in the Federal Register.

  (4)  The Administrator shall revise the Federal information
resources management regulations (41 CFR ch. 201) to be consistent
with the standards and guidelines promulgated by the Secretary of
Commerce under this subsection.

  (5)  As used in this subsection, the terms "Federal computer
system" and "operator of a Federal computer system" have the
meanings given in section 20(d) of the National Bureau of
Standards Act.

     *         *         *         *         *         *         *


***************************************************************


                 XIII.  COMMITTEE RECOMMENDATION

  A quorum being present, the bill was ordered favorably reported
on May 20, 1987, by unanimous voice vote.

                                

*************************  END  OF  TEXT  **********************

