Dear Colleagues,

Attached please find the Call For Papers for DIMVA 2008, the Fifth
GI International Conference on Detection of Intrusions & Malware,
and Vulnerability Assessment; which is to be held in Paris,
France, July 10-11, 2008. Complete information is available at
http://www.dimva.org/dimva2008.

Please feel free to distribute this announcement. We apologize if
you receive multiple copies of this message.

Best Regards,

The DIMVA 2008 Organizing Committee

------------------------------------------------------------------------ 
-----------------------------

                                    DIMVA 2008

Fifth GI International Conference on Detection of Intrusions &  
Malware, and
Vulnerability Assessment

   Organized by the GI Special Interest Group SIDAR

    [1]http://dimva.org/dimva2008/

    July 10-11th, 2008
    Paris, France

Call for Papers

    The annual DIMVA conference serves as a premier forum for  
advancing the
    state of the art in intrusion detection, malware detection, and
    vulnerability assessment. Each year DIMVA brings together  
international
    experts from academia, industry and government to present and  
discuss
    novel research in these areas. DIMVA is organized by the special
    interest group [2]Security - Intrusion Detection and Response of the
    [3]German Informatics Society (GI). The conference proceedings will
    appear in Springer's [4]Lecture Notes in Computer Science (LNCS)
    series.

    DIMVA solicits submission of high-quality, original scientific work.
    This year we invite two types of paper submissions:
      * Full papers, presenting novel and mature research results. Full
        papers are limited to 20 pages, prepared according to the
        instructions provided below. They will be reviewed by the  
program
        committee, and papers accepted for presentation at the  
conference
        will be included in the proceedings.
      * Short papers (extended abstracts), presenting original, still
        ongoing work that has not yet reached the maturity required  
for a
        full paper. Short papers are limited to 10 pages, prepared
        according to the instructions provided below. They will also be
        reviewed by the program committee, and papers accepted for
        presentation at the conference will be included in the  
proceedings
        (containing Extended Abstract in the title).

    DIMVA's scope includes, but is not restricted to the following  
areas:
      * Intrusion Detection
           + Approaches
           + Implementations
           + Prevention and response
           + Result correlation
           + Evaluation
           + Potentials and limitations
           + Operational experiences
           + Evasion and other attacks
           + Legal and social aspects
      * Malware
           + Techniques
           + Detection
           + Prevention and containment
           + Evaluation
           + Trends and upcoming risks
           + Forensics and recovery
      * Vulnerability Assessment
           + Vulnerabilities
           + Vulnerability detection
           + Vulnerability prevention
           + Classification and evaluation

    DIMVA particularly encourages papers that discuss the integration of
    intrusion, malware, and vulnerability detection in large-scale
    operational communication networks.

Organizing Committee

    General Chair: Hervé Debar, France Telecom R&D, France  
(info@dimva.org)
    Program Chair: Diego Zamboni, IBM Zurich Research Lab, Switzerland
    (pc-chair@dimva.org)
    Sponsor Chair: Ludovic Mé, Supélec (sponsor-chair@dimva.org)
    Publicity Chair: Tadeusz Pietraszek, Google, Switzerland
    (publicity-chair@dimva.org)

Program Committee

      * Kostas Anagnostakis (Institute for Infocomm Research, Singapore)
      * Thomas Biege (SuSE, Germany)
      * David Brumley (Carnegie Mellon University, U.S.A.)
      * Roland Büschkes (RWE AG, Germany)
      * Weidong Cui (Microsoft Research)
      * Marc Dacier (Institut Eurecom, France)
      * Sven Dietrich (Stevens Institute of Technology, U.S.A.)
      * Holger Dreger (Siemens CERT, Germany)
      * Ulrich Flegel (University of Dortmund, Germany)
      * Marc Heuse (Baseline Security Consulting, Germany)
      * Thorsten Holz (University of Mannheim, Germany)
      * Ming-Yuh Huang (Boeing, U.S.A.)
      * Bernhard Hämmerli (HTA Lucerne, Switzerland)
      * Martin Johns (University of Hamburg, Germany)
      * Erland Jonsson (Chalmers University, Sweden)
      * Klaus Julisch (IBM Zurich Research Laboratory, Switzerland)
      * Christian Kreibich (International Computer Science Institute,
        U.S.A.)
      * Christopher Kruegel (Technical University of Vienna, Austria)
      * Pavel Laskov (Fraunhofer FIRST and University of Tuebingen,
        Germany)
      * Wenke Lee (Georgia Institute of Technology, U.S.A.)
      * John McHugh (Dalhousie University, Canada)
      * Michael Meier (University of Dortmund, Germany)
      * John Mitchell (Stanford University, U.S.A.)
      * George Mohay (Queensland University of Technology, Australia)
      * Benjamin Morin (Supelec, France)
      * Ludovic Mé (SUPELEC, France)
      * Tadeusz Pietraszek (Google, Switzerland)
      * Phil Porras (SRI International, U.S.A.)
      * Stelios Sidiroglou (Columbia University, U.S.A.)
      * Robin Sommer (ICSI/LBNL, U.S.A.)
      * Morton Swimmer (City University of New York, U.S.A.)
      * Peter Szor (Symantec, U.S.A.)
      * Giovanni Vigna (University of California in Santa Barbara)

Important Dates

    Deadline for paper submission: February 4th, 2008 (firm deadline)
    Notification of acceptance or rejection: April 8th, 2008
    Final paper camera ready copy: April 25th, 2008
    Conference dates: July 10-11th, 2008

Paper Submission

    All papers must be submitted electronically in PDF format via the
    conference Web site. Submissions must be formatted according to the
    [5]instructions provided by Springer Verlag.

    Submitted papers must be in English and must not substantially  
overlap
    work that has been published before, or that is simultaneously in
    submission to a journal or a conference with proceedings.  
Simultaneous
    submission, submission of previously published work, and plagiarism
    constitute dishonesty or fraud. DIMVA prohibits these practices  
and may
    take appropriate action against authors who have committed them.

    For accepted papers, it is required that at least one of the authors
    attends the conference to present the paper. Presentations must  
also be
    held in English.

    Details about the electronic submission procedure will be  
provided on
    the conference Web site by the end of November 2007. Authors of
    accepted papers must follow the Springer guidelines for the  
preparation
    of camera-ready copies. Details of the process will be provided  
to the
    authors in time.

Sponsorship Opportunities

    We solicit interested organizations to serve as sponsors for DIMVA
    2008; please contact the sponsorship chair for information regarding
    corporate sponsorship.

Steering Committee

    Chairs:
      * Ulrich Flegel, University of Dortmund
      * Michael Meier, University of Dortmund

    Members:
      * Roland Büschkes, RWE
      * Bernhard Hämmerli, Acris GmbH, HSLU and ISSS
      * Marc Heuse, Baseline Security Consulting
      * Klaus Julisch, IBM Research
      * Christopher Kruegel, TU Vienna
      * Pavel Laskov, Fraunhofer FIRST and University of Tuebingen
      * Robin Sommer, ICSI/LBNL

References

    1. http://dimva.org/dimva2008/
    2. http://www.gi-ev.de/fachbereiche/sicherheit/fg/sidar
    3. http://www.gi-ev.de/
    4. http://www.springer.com/lncs
    5. http://www.springer.de/comp/lncs/authors.html
