Page 1          Green Book Draft 4.0



Green Book Draft 4.0            Page 1



Sect.   Issues / Requirement



Sect.   Issues / Requirement































Draft 4.0













October 18, 1993



Table of Contents

Preface 1

Summary of Requirements for Action      3

Acknowledgement 7

1.      Introduction    10

2.      Scope   11

3.      General issues  13

3.1.    Globalisation of the economy    14

3.2.    Internal Market 14

3.3.    Human Rights and the Protection of Communications       15

3.4.    Social Acceptance       16

3.5.    Human Rights and the Safety     17

3.6.    Confidence in Communication     18

3.7.    Management of Openness and Protection   19

3.8.    Common Concerns of Commercial and National Security     21

3.9.    Security and Law Enforcement    22

3.10.   Economics of the Security       23

3.11.   Social Recognition of Information Crime 24

3.12.   Human Factors   26

3.13.   Safety Critical Environments    26

3.14.   Embedding Systems       27

4.      Demand Related Issues   29

4.1.    Requirements for Enterprises and Individuals    30

4.1.1.  Agreement on Security Requirements for Enterprises      30

4.1.2.  Security Administration 32

4.1.3.  Security Objectives for Enterprises     33

4.1.4.  Exploiting  Innovation  34

4.1.5.  Sectoral Specifics      35

4.1.6.  Security Domains        36

4.1.7.  Security Labelling      37

4.1.8.  Administration of Access to Security Related Data       38

4.1.9.  Security Requirements for Individual Users      38

4.2.    Requirements for Security Functions     40

4.2.1.  Access Control  40

4.2.2.  Requirements for Electronic Cash        42

4.2.3.  Requirements for Security Services      42

4.2.4.  Digital Signature       46

4.2.4.1.        The Individual Right to Signature       46

4.2.4.2.        Consistency of Legal Principles for Digital Signatures
47

4.2.4.3.        Universal Acceptance of Digital Signatures      48

4.2.5.  Privacy enhancement     49

4.2.5.1.        Perception of Requirements for Privacy Enhancement
49

4.2.5.2.        The Case for the Provision of Public Confidentiality
Services   51

4.2.6.  Use of Names    53

4.2.7.  Security of Electronically Stored  Information  55

4.3.    Requirements for the Safety of Communication Systems    56

4.4.    Requirements for Evaluations    57

4.4.1.  Trustworthiness of Communication        57

4.4.2.  Motivation to Acquire Evaluated Solutions       59

4.4.3.  Consistency of Procurement Practices    59



4.5.    Requirements for Security and Safety Methodologies      60

4.5.1.  Risk Analysis and Management    61

4.5.2.  Metrics for Loss Assessment     62

4.5.3.  Technology Assessment   63

4.5.4.  Analysis of Audit Trails        63

4.5.5.  Safety Specific Methodologies   64

4.6.    Requirements for Audits 65

4.7.    Information Valuation   66

5.      Supply Related Issues   67

5.1.    Supply Related Issues   67

5.1.1.  Security Services       67

5.1.2.  Signature Schemes       71

5.1.3.  Confidentiality Schemes 72

5.2.    Supply Related Issues - Security Management     73

5.2.1.  Role of Trusted Third Parties (TTPs)    73

5.2.2.  Key Usage       76

5.2.3.  Key Management Service  77

5.2.4.  Distributed-Secret Escrow Systems       78

5.2.5.  Management Services for Names   79

5.2.6.  The  Management of TTPs 80

5.2.6.1.        Operating Principles of TTPs    80

5.2.6.2.        Interworking of TTPs    81

5.2.6.3.        Interworking of Autonomous Confidentiality Services
82

5.2.6.4.        Accreditation   83

5.3.    Supply Related Issues - Evaluation of Trusted Solutions 84

5.3.1.  Evaluation of Products, Systems, Services and Applications
85

5.3.2.  International Harmonisation     85

5.3.3.  Vendor Declarations     87

5.3.4.  Self-evaluation 87

5.3.5.  Evaluation of Applications      88

5.3.6.  Evaluation of Communication Services    89

5.3.7.  Trusted Network Management      90

5.3.8.  Evaluation of Methods and Tools 91

5.3.9.  Physical and Procedural Issues  92

5.3.10. Modifications to Evaluated Products     92

5.3.11. Performance Reporting for Trusted Products      94

5.3.12. Rationalisation of Evaluations  94

5.4.    Maintenance of Safety and Assurance     95

5.5.    Technological Change    96

6.      Rights, 99

6.1.    Legal Framework 99

6.2.    Data held in Electronic Form    100

6.3.    Environment     104

6.4.    Interaction and Relationships between Private Parties   106

6.5.    Harm    106

6.6.    Eliminating     107

6.7.    Legal Restrictions affecting Technical Solutions        108

6.8.    Limitations to Liability        109

6.8.1.  Recommendations for Liability Limiting Measures 109

6.8.2.  Information Security Audit      110

6.9.    Procedural      111

6.10.   Insurance       112



7.      Spectrum of Measures to provide Information Security    113

7.1.    Policy Framework        113

7.2.    Agreements      114

7.3.    Regulation      114

7.4.    Accreditation   114

7.4.1.  Accreditation of Services       114

7.4.2.  Accreditation of TTPs   115

7.5.    Products and Services   115

7.6.    Common Practices        115

7.7.    Awareness       117

7.8.    Specifications  117

7.9.    Standards       117

7.10.   Technology      118

8.      Cross Impact Analysis   121

Annex: Recalling the Action Lines       140

Action line I - Development of a strategic framework for the security
of information systems    140

Action line II - Identification of user and service provider
requirements for the security of information systems       141

Action Line III - Solutions for immediate and interim needs of users,
suppliers and service providers   141

Action line IV - Development of specifications, standardisation,
evaluation and certification in respect of the security of information
systems 143

Action line V - Technological and operational developments in the
security of information systems       144

Action line VI - Provision of security of information systems   145

Appendix A:     References      147

Appendix B:     Abbreviations   148

Appendix C:     Index   148



Draft 4.0 Version: Monday, October 18, 1993

Preface

The Council adopted in May 1992 a Decision in the field of the security
of information systems1 comprising the development of overall
strategies for the security of information systems (action plan) and
setting up a Senior Officials Group; (SOG-IS) to advise the
Commission on action to be undertaken. The Decision having as objective
the development of overall strategies aiming to provide users and
producers of electronically stored, processed or transmitted
information with appropriate protection of information systems against
accidental or deliberate threats.

The scope of the Decision foresees the following Action Lines; lines
of action:

I.      Development of a strategic framework  for the security of
information systems

II.     Identification of user and service provider requirements for
the security of information systems

III.    Solutions for immediate and interim needs of users, suppliers
and service providers

IV.     Development of specifications, standardisation, evaluation, and
certification in respect of the security of information systems;

V.      Technological and operational developments in the security of
information systems; and

VI.     Provision of  security of information systems.

The Decision is implemented by the Commission, in close association
with related actions in Member States and in conjunction with related
Community research and development actions.

As a step towards the formulation of the "Action Plan" identified in
the Council Decision and in accordance with the opinion of SOG-IS2 a
“Green Book on the Security of Information Systems” is being prepared,
which addresses, in accordance with the Annex of the Decision,  an
overall view of the

•       requirements for action in summary form

•       issues involved

•       spectrum of measures that result from an analysis of the
issues.

The present document sets out the background to the development of a
consistent approach to Information Security in Europe taking into
account common interests with other countries.

The intention of the Commission Services in preparing the present
document is to encourage a better understanding with the sector actors
in the Community on Information Security issues and to develop a
consensus on the requirements to be considered.  It therefore does not
necessarily represent the views of the Commission Services, or of the
Senior Officials Group for Information Security, on the subject, but
rather provides a basis for reflection and concertation with sector
actors and Member States.

The “Green Book” represents an intermediate step towards the
formulation of the Action Plan foreseen in the Council Decision. It is
to state the main issues related to the security of information systems
in its context.  A deliberate effort has been made to present the
subject matter in as objective a fashion as possible. By progressively
widening the consultation in the preparation of the document the wish
is, to obtain a representative and balanced view of the issues and the
nature and implications of the options for action one may wish to
consider. In its presentation the document is intentionally avoiding to
voice an opinion on the framework or organisation which might be
adopted to address a given issue or requirement. Such recommendations
are to be included in the Action Plan.

Note on Draft 4.0

The preparation of the document includes four successive phases
including iterative steps in the preparation of the document:

Phase I: Preparation of an Outline and Collection of material

Phase II: Drafting

Phase III: Informal Consultation

Phase IV: Formal Consultation

In its present form it represents an intermediate step towards Phase IV
of the preparation of the Green Book.



Summary of Requirements for Action

1.      Introduction Rationale

The trustworthiness and protection of information is essential for the
functioning of a modern society.

Information Security threats are growing with the diversification and
multiplication of communication services and use of electronic
information by business, administrations and the individual.

In the last decade, the Community has been working progressively
towards the creation of the Internal Market and led a policy of
liberalisation and harmonisation in the field of communications
services.

When the INFOSEC Decision was adopted it was recognised that the threat
to information security would need a  collective effort on the European
level and it set as objective the formulation of an Action Plan to
complement the national actions in a well understood spirit of
subsidiarity as far as national and internal security was concerned.

The purpose of this section of the document is to set out the critical
factors for future developments and the action required to ensure
trustworthy information services and applications in Europe and in its
relations with other parts of the world.  It formulates options for
future policy and identifies which promises to best meet the needs of
the EC  in the context of international developments and trends.

2.      Proposed Positions and Actions

Based on the results of the enquiry having resulted in the Green Book,
needs for action on an EC-scale have been identified. These require a
concerted approach within Europe and where possible internationally.
The following proposed positions and actions are derived from the
results of the work so far.

General Position

Democratic societies engaged in the global economy need to provide for
adequate levels of information security. With the growing diversity of
services and applications of telematics the security of information
systems will need to evolve with the growing demand and reduce the
risks of the threats to security and safety while avoiding to obstruct
innovation or economic and social developments.

A       Trust Services

Proposed Positions

•       In the emerging information society traditional techniques of
securing information, such as signatures, envelopes, registration,
sealing, depositing and special delivery need to be matched by
electronic equivalents.

•       The protection of the user, service provider, operator and the
collectivity should be conserved and the balance between freedom and
responsibility not changed in an uncontrollable manner.

•       Service offerings need to cater for the needs for seamless
information security for business, the general public, video and
multimedia communications and teleworking, in the non-classified
domain.

•       The working of the Community Institutions and the EC-wide
operation of public administrations of the Member States, can be
expected to rely on a combination of these services, as appropriate.

•       The definition of information crime and the rules governing the
use of electronic evidence in civil and criminal court proceedings need
to be harmonised within the EC to be able to address cases involving
trans-European services and applications.  In the absence of such
harmonisation, “safe heavens” for illegal activities can form to the
detriment of the EC.

•       As the economy becomes global, and the interrelationship among
the different actors tighter, the accepted practices and rules to which
these actors operate need to be well defined and transparent, implying
a coherent codification of essential practices and relations.

•       As Europe formulates and implements policies depending on, or
affecting, information security, the consistency overall is demanding a
greater attention. Specifically this relates to the new policies under
the Maastricht Treaty, Internal Market, Competition, and Telecom
Policies and specific actions such as Open Network Provision (ONP
Directives) and Trans-European Networks (TENs).

Proposed Actions

•       to provide for the setting up of trust services.  Trust
services include digital signature, non-repudiation, claim of origin,
claim of ownership in negotiable documents, fair exchange of values,
untraceability, and time stamping.

•       to provide for the establishment of Europe-wide confidentiality
services for non-classified information.  These could include the
following classes:

>       minimum IS assurance to be maintained by all service providers
(level of present letter mail and telephony under national privacy
legislation)

>       enhanced IS assurance for private and professional use (level
of registered mail or courier delivery as needed for normal business
transactions such as ordering and billing)

>       professional IS assurance as needed for recognised categories
of commercially (or otherwise) sensitive information

•       to establish, accredit and audit a network of Trusted Third
Parties for the administration of the service provisions such as for
name assignment, key management, certification and directories

•       to formulate a common EC-wide legal and regulatory Framework
for the alignment of national conditions to meet the needs of the
Internal Market and international developments in information security

•       to establish the liability principles for information
providers, intermediates and value added service providers

•       to put in place arbitration mechanisms to resolve liability
conflicts

•       to establish the common principles for legislation covering
communication crime and for electronic evidence

•       to develop generic codes of practice for the handling of
non-classified information, including rules for security labelling

•       to develop sector-specific codes of practice and base line
controls.

B       International Developments

Proposed Position

•       In view of the rapidly evolving international communication and
security scene, the security needs of the European organisations and
individuals must be safeguarded and the competitiveness of the European
industry maintained.

•       The creation of barriers to trade and services based on the
control over security mechanisms and digital signature schemes needs to
be avoided. In case acceptable international solutions can not be found
a European option should be considered.

Proposed Action

•       to work towards international solutions for information
security requiring global assurance

•       to strengthen the support for international standardisation

•       to formulate common positions swiftly with respect to
international developments, as they arise

•       consider a European option offering confidentiality and digital
signature services internationally.

C       Technical Harmonisation

Proposed Positions

•       Vendors and service providers need to innovate to survive
commercially. They have a vital interest in ensuring that their
products are adequately secure and safe.

•       Electronic products, systems, services and applications must
operate to generally recognised levels of trust.

•       A differentiated approach to the evaluations of trusted
solutions is needed which includes vendor declaration, self evaluation
or formal evaluation.  The choice of either of these mechanisms will
depend on the costs and delays involved in formal certification
processes, the level of assurance required and national constraints.

•       The international character of service and product supply
requires the establishment of mutual recognition of testing,
validation, auditing and liability assessment.

•       Safety, security and quality have many commonalities: these
must be exploited to reduce cost and delays in evaluations.

Proposed Actions

•       to establish an international scheme for evaluation,
certification and mutual recognition, that provides for “once only”
security, safety and quality evaluations for applications, services,
systems and products

•       to establish the principles for incident reporting obligation
for evaluated solutions, and their dissemination

•       to establish principles for incident containment

•       to establish a scheme for service provider and vendor
self-evaluations and declarations

•       to specify community-wide quality criteria for the safety of
systems, incl. methodologies for the assessment of threats,
vulnerabilities, and hazards for safety critical systems

•       establish rules for the assurance of embedded systems.



Acknowledgement

The present document is the result of numerous contributions received
from experts, working in the framework of IBAG, SRI, the Security
Investigations and SOG-IS members (over 150 contributions received).
To develop the thinking on specific groups of issues, the SOG-IS
Advisory Group, reinforced by other experts, were consulted and
contributed to the development of the document.  In a spirit of
openness, qualified contributions were accepted from all parties ready
to contribute and to discuss their input in the context of an
international workshop, that served to consolidate the views into a
coherent presentation.

While the experts acted in a personal capacity, their affiliation is
included in the list below as an indication of the range of experience
which was drawn upon.

The contributions and  active involvement in the preparation of this
document of the following personalities is gratefully acknowledged:



C.      Amery   Zergo Consultants Ltd.  UK

K.      Anstötz BIFOA   D

Mr.     Auer    Siemens Nixdorf D

G.      Axelsson        Swedish Agency for Administrative Development
S

E.      Barreto CEC DGIII/B

M.      Baum    Independent Monitoring  USA

T.      Benjamin        Defence Research Agency UK

E.      Bible   Cameron, Markby and Hewitt      B

D.      Birch   Hyperion        UK

J.      Birenbaum       France Telecom  F

J.      Blackwell       CEC DGXIII/C

C.      Blatchford      Panacea Ltd     UK

R.E.    Bloomfield      ADELARD UK

A.      Brignone        Protexarms      F

S.      Brummel Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer, Feld & Dassesse     B

A.J.    Butcher MOD - Royal Air Force   UK

L.      Cabirol SCSSI   F

R.      Cadwallader     ENACT Ltd.      UK

P.      Carriot F Telecom       F

S.      Castell CASTELL UK

E.      Cauvin  Agence pour la protection des programmes        F

D.      Cerny   Bundesministerium des Innern    D

B.J.    Chorley NPL     UK

J.      Christensen     CEC DGXIII/C

C.      Clark   IBAG    UK

R.      Clark   University of Dublin    Ireland

B.      Collins PCSL Consulting UK

J-F.    Cornet  ECOLORG F

C.J.    Coumou  Coseco International BV NL

J.M.    Court   Institute of Chartered Accountants      UK

H.      Daniel  BSI     D

P.      Daniel  GEC Marconi Secure Systems Ltd. UK

J.      De Decker       IBM     B

D.      De Geest        ESN     B

Mr.     de Kervasdoue   CAP SESA        F

A.      de la Torre Prados      Ministerio de Industria E

E.R.    de Lange        Ministry of Transport, Public Works and Water
Management        NL

P.      de Lauzanne     GSIT    F

B.      De Schutter     Free University of Brussels     B

M.      De Soete        Philips I.T.S.  B

T.      de Vries        KPMG Management Consultants     NL

D.      De Winter       Siemens Nixdorf AG      D

P.      Dellios Ministry of Transports and Communications       GR

Y.      Deswarte        LAAS-CNRS & INRIA       F

G.      Dietzel CEC DGXIII/C

R.      Dunkel  IBM Europe      F

D.      Duthil  Agence pour la protection des programmes        F

G.      Eisen   IABG    D

G.      Endersz Telia Research AB       S

R.A.    English Communications Security Establishment   UK

A.      Eriksen Ministry of Justice     N

P.      Fagan   Secure Information Systems Ltd. UK

Mr.     Fravezzi        Ministry of Defence     B

A.      Fujioka NTT Laboratories        Japan

P.      Furberg c/o Swedish Agency for Administrative Development
S

S.      Gaskill Dibb Lupton Broomhead   UK

M.      Gasparinetti    CEC Consumer Policy Service

H.      Gebhardt        CEC DGXIII/A

S.      Geyres  VERILOG F

L.      Glanert Deutsche Telecom        D

A.      Hallan          L

R.      Hanouz  CEPME   F

N.G.L.  Harding Health Systems Co-ordination    UK

G.      Hardy   Touche Ross & Co.       UK

N.      Harwood BT      UK

P.      Haufman SPRI    S

S.      Herda   GMD     D

V.      Heyvaert        Akin, Gump, Strauss, Hauer, Feld & Dassesse
B

N.      Higham          UK

G.      Hoberg  BELGACOM        B

P.      Hoving  TeleTrust S     S

E.      Humphreys       XiSEC   UK

D.      Hurley  OECD

F.      Iribarne Navarro                E

K.      Iversen Norwegian Centre for Medical Informatics        N

E.      Jahren  Ministry of Government Administration   N

C.      Jansen  Philips Crypto B.V.     NL

M.      Jones   DTI     UK

M.      Kemna   CEPIS Task Force        NL

M.      King    CESG    UK

H.M.    Kluepfel        Bellcore        USA

P.      Knopf   Swiss Mission to the E.C.       B

T.      Knowles DMR Group Ltd.  UK

M.      Kopecky SNCF    F

S.      Kowalski        Stockholm University    S

H.      Kurth   IABG    D

S.      Kurzban PACE

P.      Landrock        Cryptomathic A/S        DK

J.      Lang    Perihelion Software Ltd.        UK

C.      Laske   Free University of Brussels     B

Y.      Le Roux Digital Equipment       F

J.      Leach   Zergo Consultants Ltd.  UK

A.      Legait  SYSECA  F

O.      Leiberich               D

E.      Lemmens Programmation de la Politique Scientifique      B

W.      London  Cameron, Markby and Hewitt      UK

W.      Madsen  Computer Sciences Corporation   USA

S.      Mathews PCSL Consulting UK

R.A.J.  Middleton       British Computer Society        UK

M.      Miloikovitch    Thomson-CSF     F

S.      Mohammed        European Parliament

R.      Moses   Information Systems Ltd.        UK

P.      Müller  Bull Ingénierie F

M.      Nasrullah       Ministry of Transport, Public Works & Water
Management  NL

S.-I.   Nilsson ECITC   B

J.      Norman  SGS-Thomson Microelectronics    F

M.      Ohlin   Swedish Defence Material Administration S

T.      Osvald  CEN     B

K.W.    Ott     Ott Technology Software sprl    B

A.      Parondo ISDEFE  E

A.      Patel   Teltec  IRL

L.      Pauwels Belgacom        B

A.      Peralta Univ. Politecnica de Cataluna   E

H.      Peuckert        Siemens AG      D

C.      Pfleeger        Trusted Information Systems (UK) Ltd.   UK

F.      Piau    Pari Mutuel Urbain      F

E.      Pimentel Saraiva        Banco Totta & Acores    P

D.      Pinkas  Bull    F

R.      Pizer   Certification Body, UK ITSEC Scheme     UK

D.      Poelmans        EDS B nv        B

R. I.   Polis   Groupe de Management Genève     CH

K.      Presttun        Alcatel F

G.R.    Price   Glynwed Group Services Ltd.     UK

M.      Purser  Baltimore Technologies Ltd.     IRL

G.      Rabe    Technischer Überwachungs-Verein Nord e.V.       D

K.      Rannenberg      Universitaet Freiburg   D

R.      Rehorst Telecommunications and Post Department  NL

K.      Rihaczek        DuD     D

E.      Roback  Computer Systems Laboratory     USA

G.      Roelofsen       PTT NL  NL

T.      Roraas  Norwegian Telecommunication Regulatory Authority
N

C.      Rossi   FTI     I

R.A.    Rueppel R3 Security Engineering AG      CH

G.      Ruggiu  Bertin  F

G.      Rumi    ETNOTEAM SpA    Italy

M.      Salmon  Thomson CSF     F

E.H.    Schäfer Deutsche Telecom        D

I.      Schaumüller-Bichl       Genesis GmbH    A

T.      Schoeller       BSI     D

G.      Shuringa        Radobank        NL

H.      Siebert IBM Deutschland D

F.      Simoes  European Parliament

R.      Slegtenhorst    Organisation and Technology Research NV B

S.      Smith   EDS B   B

J.      Sneep   COSSO   NL

H.      Strack  EISS    D

W.      Suchun  FUNDP   B

M.      Tuset           E

R.      Urry    Digital Equipment Corp. B

I.      Uttridge        Logica Defence & Civil Government Ltd.  UK

P.      van Dijken      Shell International Petroleum   NL

P.W.J.  van Dok Cooperative Centrale Raiffeisen-Boerenleenbank B.A.
NL

H.      van Dorp        Bazis Foundation        NL

W.      van Gils        Intercai        NL

M.      van Lith        KPMG EDP Auditors       NL

N.      van Zuuren      Prodata Systems B

A.      Veller  Cullen International    B

A.      Verrijn-Stuart  Leiden University       NL

L.      Voorham CEC Security Office

H.      Weerd   Coopers & Lybrand       NL

W.      Whitehurst      IBM Corporation USA

K.      Wiessing        The Dutch Government Centre for Information
Security    NL

G.      Williams        ACT/BIS Information Systems Ltd.        UK

D.      Willis  DTI     UK

S.      Winkelmann      Hochschule für Technik u. Wirtschaft    D

H.      Wirth   Auswärtiges Amt D



1.      Introduction Rationale

Individual, corporate and national wealth expresses itself increasingly
in the form of information. The growth and performance of an estimated
2/3 of the economy relies on manufacturing or services heavily
dependent on information technology, telecommunications and
broadcasting, and therefore depends critically on the accuracy,
security and trustworthiness of information. This is of as great
importance and interest for individuals as for commerce, industry and
public administrations. Correspondingly, the protection of information
Security of Information Systems, definition; in all its aspects,
here referred to as Information Security3 , has become a central policy
issue and a major concern world-wide.

The Council Decision of March 31, 19924 in the field of security of
information systems recognises this situation and calls for the
“development of strategies to enable the free movement of information
within the single market; while ensuring the security of the use of
information systems throughout the Community”.

A consistent approach at European level could help to promote the
interoperability of systems, lower existing barriers and avoid the
formation of new ones between the individual Member States and with
other countries5 Therefore, there is an urgent need to address
requirements and options for action in the field of security of
information systems at national, Community and international level in
close collaboration with sector actors and national governments. Any
action must take into account both national and international
commercial, legal and technical developments.

The key issue is to provide effective and practical security for
information held in an electronic form to the general users, the
business community and administrations without compromising the
interests of the public at large.

Since information security is involved in the protection not just of
property and people, but even of society itself, Member States regard
it as a topic which, like defence, touches on national sovereignty.



2.      Scope, definition

Security is a pervasive subject that arises whenever information is
being used in private, business and public life.  The scope of the
subject and a clear distinction of the of the different dimensions
needs to be kept in mind throughout. The diagram below provides a
statement of the scope in an aggregate form.



Structure of document;this document

The core of the document is describing issues and the resulting
requirements for action. It was felt necessary to state the problems
clearly and concisely before attempting to define solutions. In this
sense, the document, in its present form, represents a rather
comprehensive analysis of the problems, without being a work
programme.  The requirements for actions are stated in a general form,
without implying any particular organisational responsibility. These
issues are grouped under the following headings:

•       General issues. Here some of the basic issues relating to the
security of information systems are described. These place security
into a fast evolving world economy and states issues like rights and
obligations, human rights, openness and protection.

•       Demand related issues.; Issues under this section are
concerned with requirements, security objectives, Codes of Practice,
and the needs for digital signature and privacy enhanced
communications.

•       Supply related issues;. Under this heading, issues are
identified which arise when meeting the demand for security and include
security services, Trusted Third Parties, evaluation and R&D.

•       Rights, responsibilities and liabilities issues.; Under this
heading issues relating to the consequences of security breaches are
dealt with. These include civil law and insurance.

The measures one can consider addressing the issues identified are
aggregated  in a separate section.  This presentation is used to
accentuate the profile of issues which can be addressed by the same
kind of measures.

The diagram below depicts this structure.





3.      General issues; Issues (of general nature)



3.1.    Globalisation of the economy; and mobility

Issue

The internationalisation, diversification, pluralisation and
popularisation of the use of communications and information systems.

Discussion

The unprecedented increase in mobility and the provision of global
communications has resulted in manufacturing, trade and leisure
activities extending world-wide. Distributed manufacturing, publishing,
and financial operations form the back-bone of the modern economic
system. Travelling and communications for business or pleasure are
common place. This is being supported, and sometimes driven, by a
spectacular development in the field of communications and by the
proliferation of affordable and easy to use information systems. In the
last decade the cost-performance of long-distance transmission has
improved by 5 orders of magnitude. This change is providing the basis
for a rapid diversification of world-wide services customised to
provide access to a full range of information services and utilities
wherever and whenever required. Terrestrial, satellite and mobile
networks provide the physical infrastructure and an unrestrained number
of service applications provide the customised applications.

The nature and scope of provision of Information Security in this new
world of open, multi-service and multi-media communications with a
multitude of alternatives to routing, management and access has
profoundly changed the requirements and options for Information
Security (IS).

Flexibility of access, openness of the network and the service
environment have to be balanced against the requirement of
accountability of the user and the service provider and the protection
of possible third parties involved. Associated with this is a new
network of responsibilities and liabilities.

Requirements

•       Revision of the scope and approach to information security to
reflect the new conditions, challenges and requirements brought about
by globalisation

•       adaptation of the respective policies and regulations

•       clearly defined conventions on the expectations,
responsibilities, duties and liabilities, related to levels of
security, harm, and good practices.

3.2.    Internal Market; (“four freedoms;”)

Issue

Alignment of the national conditions relating to Information Security
with the requirements of the functioning of the Internal Market.

Discussion

The Internal Market, as adopted in the “Single Act”, provides for the
"four freedoms " within the Community, ie free movement of goods,
capital, services and people. The legislation of Member States provides
for the internal needs for information security, however the
requirements in the case of trans-European communications remains to be
addressed. Inconsistent or incomplete provisions of information
security and safety represents a technical obstacle to the working of
the Internal Market.

The measures taken to establish confidence in systems should not
adversely affect the flow of goods and services. Standardisation,
certification, mutual recognition and administrative procedures should
provide for the unobstructed working of the Internal Market. This
requires standards that are valid but not overly restrictive on
technological solutions, certification regimes that recognise the
international aspects of many of the markets (eg in avionics, motor
vehicles), the costs of certification, and the likely acceptance by the
market of any certification regimes put in place.

Beyond the technical aspects, the administration of information
security needs to reflect the realities of the needs of the Internal
Market.  Services are to be increasingly provided on the principle of
“one-stop” and “pay-per-use”.  Information security, as an integral
part of services, needs to be provided in a seamless manner throughout
the Community and support EC actors in their business world-wide.

Related are the issues of liability and insurance. The impact of
different states legal systems and the associated liability issues
needs to be understood.

Requirements

•       Adaptation of the existing provisions with respect to their
conformance to the Internal Market policy of the EC implying the
removal of existing internal barriers and the avoidance of the
formation of new technical barriers due to divergent application of
security and safety rules, regulations and legislation

•       provision to business and the public of solutions available
throughout the Community and preferably at the international level
respecting the “one stop” and “pay-per-use” principles

•       consistent deployment of standards and certification where
critical for the working of the Internal Market

•       certification and standards that reflect the needs of the
different market segments.

3.3.    Human Rights and the Protection of Communications;

Issue

To reconcile the human right to privacy and the obligations of law
enforcement to protect public order.

Discussion

Privacy and the protection of private information is considered one of
the fundamental human rights of individuals and is protected to varying
degrees in Member States. The European convention on Human Rights
states “Everyone as a right to respect for his private and family life,
his home and his correspondence”. Individuals have the legitimate
expectation that this right is respected and that solutions are made
available to him that ensure the safeguard of this right. This applies
to conversation in the home and to a lesser degree when
telecommunications is being used. However, prevailing national
solutions do not, at present, provide for trans-European services and
communications and this lack can be exploited, inter alia, by organised
crime. With the rapid growth and diversification of communication
services the rights and duties of individuals and law enforcement are
being reviewed and redefined, eg FBI supported legislation and the
proposal of the government to provide US business and citizens with
cryptographic devices including explicit provision for intercept by law
enforcement agencies.

As the safety and security of the individual provided by the process of
law and order is also related to human rights, reconciling these
objectives represents a delicate political issue.

The diagram below gives an overview of international, Community and
national responsibilities for different application categories.



Requirements

•       Common approach defining rights, responsibilities and duties of
individuals, business and of the authorities.

3.4.    Social Acceptance; of Identification; and
Authentication; Methods

Issue

To reconcile the human right to privacy and protection and the use of
identification and authentication methods for access control,
authentication and accountability.

Discussion

The use of biometric methods and smart cards is technically feasible
and becoming more economically feasible as an identification technique
and access control.

Biometric methods; rely on a system of machine recognition of a set
of personal characteristics to verify the identity of an authorised
user in order to allow access to some physical environment. Such
personal characteristics include hand-written signatures, fingerprints,
voice prints, machine phrenology, lip prints, response of the skeleton
to a physical stimulus, hand geometry and retinal patterns.

Many other different personal characteristics and recognition
techniques are being investigated by researchers. Some of these effect
the human right for privacy more than others and some are socially
unacceptable.

As an example, the retinal blood-vessel pattern of a human eye (retinal
vasculature) is highly characteristic of the individual. A typical
system might work as follows. The individual is required to look into
an optical device and through a process of optical adjustment fixate on
a crosswire whereby the recognition machine will locate the fovea of
the individual, and scanning with a low intensity infra-red beam detect
the nodes and branches of the retinal pattern falling within the
scanned area. The measured pattern is compared with the stored pattern
of the individual and access is granted or denied depending on the
result of the comparison. This method of machine recognition may or may
not be considered sociably acceptable on the grounds of hygiene, due to
the type of information being stored about the individual (a record of
which may be built up which may reveal other information relating to a
persons health condition) or the general problem of protection of
medically relevant information.

There are systems under trial for the recognition of human profiles eg
the human face. Again these systems may not in general be socially
acceptable and the issue of privacy and human rights may come into
play.  The use of voice-prints has been introduced in Australia and
does not require the consent of the persons concerned. It is used to
scan calls for individuals.

In addition to biometric controls;, the role of smart cards
containing megabytes of personal data may potentially represent an
issue. Even a magnetic stripe on a passport or national identity card
may contain around 200 characters of information.  Security and privacy
controls should reflect national conventions and practices.  Smart
identity cards and national identification numbers may serve as
conduits to greater amounts of personal data contained in data bases.
Member States treat such technology differently. As identity cards and
passports transition to machine readable embedded chips and
magnetic/optical stripes respectively, privacy and security controls
must be incorporated to prevent abuse of the personal data therein.

Progress in bio-technology raises new questions as to the definition of
privacy and as to the rights of the individual over information
relating to his person and the assurances required for its use.
Information relating to genetic defects are of obvious sensitivity and
implies corresponding measures for protection. Work may need to be
undertaken to set out a clear definition between things that are
biometric and things that are medical.  At the present time there is
low confidence by the general public in the honesty of commerce or
government in the field of bio-technology.

Requirements

•       Clarification of the ownership of biometric data; and
privacy of biometric data; issues related to the use of biometric
data

•       agreed classification of biometric data and conditions
requiring secure handling of such data

•       definition of the rights of and responsibilities of
individuals, business users, corporations and administrations using
biometric techniques.

3.5.    Human Rights and the Safety; of Systems

Issue

To reconcile the human right to  expect the supply of goods and
services that are not life threatening, with the vendors commercial
needs to supply goods and services that exploit information systems in
safety critical functions.

Discussion

Safety critical systems differ from security critical ones in that if
they fail death or serious injury to people may result. The law treats
the liability of suppliers in this situation differently from that
where information is lost or property damaged. Suppliers are held
strictly liable. Codes of practice for the development of safety
critical systems exist in order to reduce the chance of failure and
design techniques are invoked to analyse all possible hazards.
Nevertheless risks remain.

At a Community level, harmonisation of such codes of practice and
design techniques would enable citizens to rely on a consistent level
of safety in any Member State, and it would reduce the costs of
development of codes of practice and design techniques in each country.
Community-wide procurement would be facilitated, as would the
development of safety critical systems by Community-wide consortia.

Requirements

•       Community wide standard for design practices and codes of
conduct

•       harmonised legal environment for vendors and users of safety
critical systems.

3.6.    Confidence in Communication; Systems and Confidence in
Services

Issue

To establish confidence in communication services and systems for all
the parties involved (users, public, service providers etc.). This
includes confidence in the general ability of the technology as well as
confidence in specific solutions and the way they are managed.

Discussion

Confidence in the security and safety of communication services and
systems is a basic requirements if regulators are to discharge their
duties, if service providers and vendors are to able to operate in the
communication market, and if  consumers and users are to benefit from
the technologies. In considering confidence we need not only to address
it on from an idealised objective viewpoint but also to take into
account the behaviour of users, their perception of risks and its
volatility. It might only take one incident to undermine user
confidence with substantial financial and political repercussions. eg
reluctance to use air travel, rejection of certain makes of cars.

Confidence is therefore a key notion. It is achieved through the
integration of disparate sources of evidence from the process used to
develop the system,  properties of the system as revealed by analysis
and testing, and through experience with the particular systems and
other similar ones. The confidence in a service or system should be
rigorously and scientifically based: the confidence should not be
misplaced. There is a need to understand this integration of evidence
and engineering judgement and to develop procedures and techniques for
it.

An important contributor to confidence is the experience with the
system under consideration and similar systems. While many suspect that
software and design errors are important factors undermining confidence
in systems this is normally  supported by anecdotes rather than by
statistically significant evidence. There is a need to establish what
dependability is being achieved in practice, the relative importance of
different parts of the computer systems and how the dependable computer
systems are compared wit other components in the wider system.
Mechanisms should be put in place for feeding this data back to the
development of systems and for providing early warning of problems
before these develop into incidents.  Ideally,  the experience with
systems should be related back to the techniques and procedures used to
develop them.

There is also the issue of how confidence in a service or system can be
expressed and communicated.

While undoubtedly independent diverse viewpoints are important in the
verification and validation of systems and in motivating vendors and
service provides the issue of whether these practices need to be
codified into formal requirements for third party evaluation and
certification needs careful consideration and evaluation of the costs,
risks and benefits. The alternatives of self-evaluation, vendor
declarations and of using other mechanisms such as liability and the
insurance market may be more appropriate.

Linked to the concept of confidence is the need to anticipate whether a
systems could potentially meet the requirements and to prevent the
development of unassurable systems .  It may be possible to develop
simple rules (eg the notion of claim limits used in parts of the
nuclear industry to disallow claims of reliability greater than 10-5
failures per demand for a single system) that, while not restricting
innovation unduly, prevents delimiting what is assurable.

Requirements

•       Real-time indication for the user of the trustworthiness of a
service or system

•       feedback mechanisms for security and safety related incidents
involving communications

•       independent assessment of the levels of trustworthiness being
achieved

•       investigation of the reasons why the security and safety of
systems are compromised

•       understanding of the relative importance of the different
system components and the components of the wider system and usage
context

•       methods/frameworks for evidence reporting

•       role (costs, benefits) of certification in providing confidence
and communicating this in the market place

•       establishment of agreed claim limits to establish
assurability.

3.7.    Management of Openness and Protection

Issue

Openness and protection are partially contradictory user requirements,
which need to be reconciled depending on the specific circumstances.
The user must be able to define the security controls based on need,
consistent with national, international and regulatory constraints.
These controls need to managed in a way that provides protection in an
open environment and do not unduly impede the functioning of the
service or usage.

Discussion

In considering management, one must introduce the concept of a user of
an Information System, and the role that they perform in using that
system.  At any time the user of an Information System will be
performing a role, which could be one of: system owner, administrator,
auditor, investigator, data provider, or user. It is quite possible for
the requirements of these roles to be logical in conflict with each
other. Openness of access may be in conflict with protection from
general availability. There may also be national, international or
regulatory constraints which impose role requirements beyond those
needed to satisfy the operational use of the Information System.  An
open environment must be provided with controls that are capable of
providing protection without technical limitations.

A single, isolated computer may be effectively protected, as far as
confidentiality is concerned, against threats from outside by physical
separation and human administration. This does not apply in the context
of telematics. Telecommunications and telematics applications are
increasingly being designed for maximum openness and inter-operability
since the utility of ITT&B-based services and applications depends
largely on the possibility of users world-wide being able to freely
inter-operate over communication links. Major international efforts are
underway to establish standards permitting this, in particular through
Open System Interconnection (OSI);, Open Distributed Processing
(ODP); and Open Network Provision (ONP);.

The acceptance and use of telematics services depends on meeting the
justifiable interests of all parties: in particular to be able to chose
trade-offs between "openness" and "protection"6.

In recognition of this, increasing attention is being given to the
provision of Information Security Services and Techniques.

The comparison with the way this dilemma is traditionally addressed
leads to some observations which also apply when information is handled
electronically. These include, for example

•       The User/Originator requires the freedom to decide over the
degree of openness/protection depending on his appreciation of the
requirement or the applicable rules of conduct for the given activity.

•       Profiles exist setting out the needs of both openness and
protection that need to be supported.  A single level profile will not
support the requirements of all the users involved, and there may need
to be mechanisms which allow for negotiation between profiles to
determine temporarily agreed common profiles.

•       Infrastructure, services, applications and organisation have to
be adapted to provide the openness/protection.

•       To the role holders, both the visibility of and the
transparency of the degree of openness/protection is crucial.

•       Accountability for the application of appropriate levels of
openness/protection require objective records, which are themselves
protected.

•       The management of the openness and the protection of
Information Systems requires the definition of security domains.  These
correspond to the security policies which are in force for the
Information Systems in use, as modified by the constraints of the role
holders.  It should be remembered that computers which are not directly
under human supervision may form part of the security domains
involved.

The development of a generic framework for the management of open and
protected communications in a user/business oriented environment must
include:

1.      Reinforcement of the options to define security domains

Terminal users, servers and other computer based resources link into
business processes to provide information domains which require
corresponding security domains.  Such facilities must not only promote
the correct degree of openness , but must also provide filters against
unauthorised access. This needs to be possible not only at one site eg
on LAN-Based applications, but also via MANs and other
communication-links. The definition and management of such security
domains needs to be possible either from within the user group or
provided by a trusted third party. Virtual Private Networks have some
of the features, but these would also need to be available in the
context of public network based applications.

2.      User Interface for the management of openness/protection

The normal usage requires the ability to communicate either with
specific correspondents, a select group, an open group or
indiscriminately. The choice being determined by the nature of the
information, its function and the applicable rules. The user-interface
needs to cater for this as well as the underlying services and
applications.

3.      Objective records; and procedures for the accounting of
open/protected transactions

Processes must be available that provide non-refutable evidence of the
origin of, and delivery of, information to all involved partners.

Requirements

•       Generic framework for the management of open and protected
communications in a user/business oriented environment:

-       definition of agreed security domains

-       user interface for the management of openness/protection

-       objective records and procedures for the accounting of
open/protected transactions

3.8.    Common Concerns of Commercial and National Security

Issue

Information Security is a common concern of business, administrations,
citizens, law enforcement and defence.

Discussion

Though not to the same degree, commercial and personal information
security shares many aspects with the defence and other classified
governmental affairs. This provides an opportunity for commercial and
personal applications to build on experience and expertise from the
defence and classified government area.

The reverse is also true. As commercial security advances and becomes
available at a large scale, governments and defence organisations may
wish to take into account this body of experience. In addition
governments themselves are, of course, in the need of adequate
protection of their non-classified information and will wish to make
use of public services of this kind.

Requirements

•       Common requirements of business, citizens and authorities to
adequately protect commercial and personal information and its
communication.

3.9.    Security and Law Enforcement; on International Scale

Issue

Crime is exploiting weak information security to further its ends.
Strong information privacy may also be used to escape investigation by
law enforcement.

Discussion

Crime, and here organised crime; and terrorism in particular, are
relying on weak information security; to prepare and execute their
operations. As quite powerful means for information security have been
published and are freely available, their increased use in protecting
such operations is perceived as a growing problem. Public authorities
have in the past used legal and regulatory powers to restrict the use
and dissemination of related technologies. With the growing
availability of computing power and open networks, this approach is
getting less effective, as organised crime, contrary to the legitimate
user, feel free to use products that are not authorised. The overall
result is that business is seriously constrained in meeting its
security requirements, particularly in international communications and
in its relations with other organisations. If business requires the
legal and regulatory powers to relinquish total control over these
security related technologies, business has a “duty of care;” to
manage and control their use for their commercial and business
purposes, including the policing and auditing of management
environments. Correspondingly, authorities maintaining control carry
the responsibility for the potential damage to business, individuals
and the economy at large.

Privacy and security are impacted by the growth in interconnected
law enforcement/criminal information systems;; There is an increasing
availability of criminal and law enforcement information from a variety
of national data bases (eg, United Kingdom's Police National Computer 2
- PNC2;; Germany's INPOL;; France's fichier des personnes
recherchées - FPR;; the United States' National Crime Information
Centre - NCIC;; Canada's Canadian Police Information Centre - CPIC
and Australia's Law Enforcement Access Network - LEAN) and
international data bases (eg, Schengen Information System;;
INTERPOL's X.400 distributed data base network and the
EUROPOL;/Trevi Information System;). Incorrect information can
lead to false arrests and a general denial of civil liberties.
Non-vetted information can result in individuals being arrested and/or
investigated for spurious and non-criminal reasons such as political,
trade unionist and religious activities.

Requirements

•       Effective, internationally agreed, economic, ethical and usable
solutions to meet business, administration and personal needs

•       mechanisms for authorised interception for law enforcement

•       reporting of incidents and crimes adjusted to the conditions of
the Internal Market

•       equipment, software and an infrastructure of trusted third
parties.

3.10.   Economics of the Security; of Information Systems

Issue

The use of information security impacts on costs;, performance;
and availability;.  It may also be used to achieve a competitive
advantage;.

Discussion

The cost of security is an integral part of cost of ownership of an
information system, ie namely that without security the users system is
at risk. The cost of protection against breaches of security needs to
be commensurate with the costs (both direct and indirect) that may be
incurred from a breach in security. A security breach may have short
term (and perhaps, localised) implications such as loss of sales and
revenue or fraud or theft. It may also have longer term (and wider)
impacts on business communities through loss of confidence and
consequential loss of business.

The costs of detection, resistance and recovery can be both tangible
and high, and although there are techniques available to quantify risks
there are no generally applicable methods for estimating the potential
costs arising for example from denial of service or loss of integrity.
The provision of security measures may also make it harder to use and
may constrain overall performance. However, where the security risk is
high enough to cause an unacceptable level of compromise, leading to
considerable commercial and financial loss, then security measures must
be given high priority commensurate with the nature and value of the
business in question.

If information security is too expensive, clumsy, not effective in the
context of actual usage or not available in time its use is avoided and
high risks are taken until something drastic happens. The issue for
information security is therefore, not only to be effective but also to
address other requirements which impact the acceptability and
application of information security.

In particular, countermeasures; may have to be put in place that
meet specific regulatory or legislative requirements, with associated
mandatory assurance; needs.

To a business, securing information can be thought of as being like an
insurance policy - the cost of protection must be balanced against the
likely consequences of the perceived threat occurring. This cost is
made up of a number of elements, including:

•       the life-cycle costs; of implementing the countermeasures in
relation to likely and worst case

•       impact on business performance

•       liability of management for incidents and relationship with
customer confidence

•       legal costs.

An important experience from the past two years shows that, in
commercial applications, the aspects of cost and ease of use are
critical for the introduction of information security. For this reason
a number of enterprises, including many Governments, are looking to
procure Commercial Off The Shelf (COTS); security products to meet
their needs, rather than developing bespoke systems.

The unit cost of security is affected by market volume. Market volume
is unlikely to be achieved without commoditisation of security products
to the point where they are part of the IT infrastructure rather than a
separate cost factor (on cars, ABS was expensive until it became
generally fitted).

High volume and commoditisation can be achieved by:

∑       the provision of a common architecture and security building
blocks which can be used across the widest possible community so that
low prices can be achieved

∑       development of world-wide standards for secure systems

∑       raising awareness of security risks in order to stimulate
demand

∑       common or mutually recognised security evaluations world-wide

∑       vendor self-certification, with appropriate liabilities

∑       agreed protection levels with corresponding sets of protection
measures (to focus products onto common needs). Current work on
baseline controls could provide a basis for an agreed minimum
protection level. Other protection levels may be needed for more
sensitive or critical information

∑       it may be that separate security evaluation criteria and
methods need to be developed to allow low price, low assurance
assessments to be carried out

Requirements

•       “IS-to-cost;” techniques for business and private users

•       incorporation of good information security design practice in
the development of products and services

•       definition of information security as business and marketing
factor

•       identification of acceptance levels for insurers, regulators
and the commercial courts

•       specification of duties and responsibilities of parties to the
use of information systems and their security requirements

•       security architecture and "building blocks" specifications and
standards, with a view to minimising the cost of providing commonly
needed levels of security.

3.11.   Social Recognition of Information Crime

Issues

Negligence, ignorance and recklessness are the some of the causes of
many security breaches and create the opportunity for information
crimes.

Discussion

Information security breaches, like failures to observe safety rules,
can in many instances be attributed to a lack of care; or ignorance.
This is compounded by the fact that the loss of immaterial goods, for
example information, is not considered as serious as the loss of
material goods. This is due in part to the fact that electronically
stored information can be reproduced at close to zero costs without the
loss of the original. Stealing information is therefore often
considered as a gain for the thief without a loss to the owner. It is
perceived by many to be a game rather than a real problem because
people are unable to relate the electronic world to the real one. This
has the double effect of inciting negligence by the owner of the
information and little concern for the illegal acquisition of
information. Because of the widely practised back-up of information
resources, this applies even to the intentional or accidental
destruction of information.

There is much work in establishing and reinforcing "ethical
principles;" as applied to specific actions of information ownership,
creation, dissemination, etc. These need to be related to sector
actors, their control perspective and the assets over which they
exercise either explicit or implicit authority. This needs to be
related to codes of practice and conduct, legislation and regulation to
establish the extent to which protection is dependent upon a formal or
informal control environment or can rely on the enhancement of ethical
and professional standards.  Changes to traditional programming
techniques have made it possible for non-IT professionals to deliver
programming and systems analysis methods.  In many smaller enterprises
such work would often be done by non-IT professionals.

Two examples of computer crime illustrate the diversity of situations
which may arise:

Example 1

In a German company (belonging to the "Association for Security") a
programmer - unsatisfied with his salary - caused damage by a specific
computer-programme. This program modified the data of a data bank by
randomly controlled write operations. The programme was intricately
hidden among other programme-parts. Within two years the data-bank
became more and more defective and damaged. The costs of damages and of
reconstructing the data bank were about 500 000 ECU.

Example 2

In an office of the German Government a huge computer-system,
comprising various storage means and terminals was installed. Suddenly
the computer-execution-times and the response times became much longer
than expected. After a difficult investigations it turned out, that a
programmer, who had founded together with his wife a shop for sending
out photo-equipment, has done his complete accounting, mailing, etc.
for his shop on the computer in a hidden area. He had camouflaged or
suppressed the protocolling of this programme. He caused damage of
about 100 000 ECU.

Requirements

•       Education and training on the information security requirements
and concepts needed to operate in a secure manner in the Information
Age

•       clarification of "Info-Ethics" for the professional and
individual user in its relationship to information security

•       clarification of responsibilities of the sector actors in
general and in their relations within each other, with particular
reference to open and distributed applications.

3.12.   Human Factors

Issue

Human interference with information systems constitutes the biggest
risk factor to security and the most difficult to address.

Discussion

The largest potential threat to IT systems arises from the people
involved in them be they designers, programmers, operators or users.
And more security breaches are caused by human error, often by well
intended people, than any other causes.

Apart from providing “fool-proof” system and services, there is thus a
need for organisations to give due consideration to the non technical
techniques which they should consider to meet this threat.  Such
techniques could come under the heading of personnel policies and
forced users - positive vetting, removal on notice, monitoring changes
in life style, avoidance of collusion, job organisation, contracts of
employment, etc.  And the role of good supervision.

Allied to this is the need to emphasise that controls in a system must
not only relate to the technical mechanisms but to the system overall,
including the clerical and manual workforce.  And, of course, they must
relate to the overall objectives of the organisation.

"Security is an attitude of mind, practice and discipline."

Requirements

•       Adjustment of personnel management practices and organisational
procedures to reduce the vulnerability by the actions of staff and
other people

•       greater use of non-technical management controls.

3.13.   Safety Critical Environments

Issue

Protection of information in safety critical environments;.

Discussion

Safety and security have a common technological basis, but differ in
their objective.  In complex systems there is in many cases a duality
of objectives.  Safe systems need also to be secure. The reverse is not
necessarily the case.

Safety is defined in terms of hazards and risk. A hazard is a set of
conditions (a state) that can lead to an accident, given certain
environmental conditions. The analysis of the safety environment
involves identifying the hazards within a safety critical environment
and then either verifying that hazardous states cannot be reached or
that the risk is acceptable. Risk is defined as a function of the
probability of a hazard occurring, the probability that the hazard will
lead to an accident, and the worst potential loss associated with such
an accident. You can diminish risk by reducing any or all of these
factors, and there are environmental-safety techniques that focus on
each.

There is an increase in the use of information systems within various
areas of application which are considered as part of a safety critical
environment. For example in the area of healthcare (eg medical
databases), air traffic control, transportation of hazardous and
dangerous goods, industrial processes etc. The increased reliance on
electronic information in these various areas of application
specifically related to the control and management of safety, has
resulted in an increased need for the protection of the information
system supplying such information. Therefore the protection of
information systems used in safety critical environments is factor to
be addressed when considering hazards and associated risks in such
environments.

Consideration needs to be given to the common requirement of security
and safety, common methods for analysing the threats, vulnerabilities
and hazards, and the role of security evaluation for safety-critical
systems.

Requirements

•       Common approach to the handling of security and safety critical
requirements

•       methodologies for threat, vulnerability and hazard analysis for
the protection of information systems used in safety-critical
environments

•       methodologies for the design, development and procurement of
safety critical systems, covering project management, development
environment, auditing of process, configuration management and change
control

•       common approach to security evaluation of information systems
in safety-critical environments

•       common approach to information systems recovery in safety
critical environments.

3.14.   Embedding Systems Embedded systems security

Issue

There is a marked trend to embed information systems in other products.
This raises particular security and safety issues.

Discussion:

Increasing use of computers and information processing is occurring in
a manner that incorporates information/computers into other products to
make those products more usable, flexible, etc. These embedded systems,
that are usually hidden from the user, depend upon the accuracy of the
programs they contain and the information inputs/outputs to preserve
the usefulness of the products in which they are placed. Failure of the
processor or corruption of the programs or information contained may
cause failure or destruction of the device or hazard to the user.

Embedded systems are already being used in automobiles for controlling
ignition and carburettor systems or braking systems, in television sets
and VCRs, in microwave ovens, and so on. As embedded systems
proliferate they create potentials for physical hazard to users beyond
simple loss of the functionality of the devices in which they are
embedded. The potential will also exist that such embedded systems
could constitute a hazard to the well-being of bystanders or property.

Security hazards; can be introduced quite unwillingly. For
flexibility reasons, suppliers of communication systems are moving
towards installable firmware in the field.  They may thereby overlook
the fact that such a facility may create an undefined platform.  IEEE
standard 1149.1 calls for standard test access ports and also foresees
the possibility of remote diagnosis.  It is therefore possible to
extract data flowing between the components on a printed circuit.

To some extent, liability laws will cover product failures which create
damage to users. However, there may need to be some added means of
ensuring the reliability of embedded systems and the integrity of the
systems as they leave the factory.

Requirements

•       Methods of testing that enable standards of reliability to be
ensured, including tests to destruction where appropriate

•       approach for the certification of safe products

•       definition of requirements for fail-safe system architectures
and implementations

•       anti-tampering and protection specifications and standards

•       quality label, that indicates the quality level of the embedded
system

•       awareness of designers of the potential impact of innovation in
the validity of test technology.



4.      Demand Related Issues; Issues (related to demand)





4.1.    Requirements for Enterprises and Individuals





4.1.1.  Agreement on Security Requirements for Enterprises

Issue

Identification of real world security requirements and objectives for
business and administration. The derivation of security requirements
from business requirements is complex and not well understood.

Discussion

The protection of information systems must include all relevant
aspects. Consideration must be given to requirements from the view
point of the enterprise, taking into account corporate and organisation
plans, goals and strategies of the business or administration.
Requirements at this level can be then translated into "Security
Objectives" - why the security functionality is required as it applies
to the operation of the business or administration environment.

There are two elements to this:

•       identifying business requirements which have a security
dimension

•       relating that security dimension to security objectives.

These security objectives need then to be supported by a definition of
the security functionality and related services required necessary to
support the user/business.



The security model has not included legal, accounting or regulatory
requirements which may be imposed upon enterprises rather than forming
any integral part of the Enterprise requirements.

Given the complexity and diversity of user/enterprise requirements for
such protection it is necessary to classify the requirements in some
structured way consistent with real world business and operational
environments.

The protection of information systems needs to consider the enterprise
requirements of the “business”. These requirements not only include
functionality that is “owned” by the enterprise but must include
inter-enterprise requirements as well. It must consider the
functionality and assurance of IT building blocks, end user
applications, integration enablers (such as electronic mail), operating
systems, communication services and protocols, and basic hardware and
software platforms.

The balance of functionality and assurance; (what it does) and
assurance (how well it does it), both generic and application specific,
will determine the extent to which electronic information systems are
accepted as an integral part of both the public and corporate IT
infrastructure to underpin business actions.

The prime requirement for any secure system must be a set of
architectural principles that can be effectively translated into an
overall design framework. Secure systems must be created at different
“grades of assurance” from a set of policies, standards and
procedures.

Specific security requirements relating to open systems will come from
a threat assessment and risk analysis which will form part of the
overall system security policy process.

The cost of security; is an integral part of the cost of ownership
of an IT system ie namely that without security the user’s system is at
risk. The cost of protection against breaches of security needs to be
commensurate with the costs (both direct and indirect) that may be
incurred from a breach in security. A security breach may have short
term (and perhaps, localised) implications such as loss of sales and
revenue or fraud. It may also have longer term (and wider) impacts on
business communities through loss of confidence and consequential loss
of business.

The cost of detection;, resistance and recovery can be tangible and
high, and although there are techniques available to quantify risks
there are no generally applicable methods for estimating the potential
costs arising for example from denial of service or loss of integrity.
The provision of security measures may also make it harder to use and
may constrain overall performance. However, where the security risk is
high enough to cause an unacceptable level of compromise, leading to
considerable commercial and financial loss, then security measures must
be given high priority commensurate with the nature and value of the
business in question. Sectoral requirements vary widely, as do
requirements by size of enterprise within a sector.  Sectoral
requirements may be varied by regulation, bilateral international
agreements, general trading agreements or conventions.

Increased demand for Electronic trading; from all kinds of
businesses, both public and private sector, will place requirements for
security on the communal service infrastructure that provides the
capability for such business activities. The regulatory and legal
environment within which such service organisations work will become a
factor for economic growth in the community, and security of service
provision an element of such services.

Requirements

•       Taxonomy and directory of user requirements and security
objectives derived from experience with practical applications.

4.1.2.  Security Administration

Issue

Security administration operates within the overall management.  It
should not compromise its mission.

Discussion

Security administration is an indispensable function for the normal
working of any organisation and falls within the "control" aspect of
management's activities.

The function's objectives will be to ensure the existence and
maintenance of security of:

•       hardware, firmware, software

•       personnel

•       communications and networks

•       physical environment.

It will also be concerned about disaster recovery and contingency
planning; compliance with legislation such as data protection and
privacy laws, and maintaining auditability. Corporate governance issues
are now starting to require directors of listed companies in UK to
state publicly whether they consider that their companies' system of
internal control has been working, and this specifically includes
information security consideration.

Security administration represents a non-negligible cost factor in an
enterprise.  It may also unduly restrict personnel to do their job.
Therefore, security administration and management needs must be
reconciled.

Personnel in the security administration function need not only to have
adequate awareness, information and training in order to recognise
threats and vulnerabilities and to be aware of appropriate
counter-measures, but also to understand the enterprise’s mission.

Management is responsible for reviewing audit reports and taking
corrective action where necessary.  Audit is responsible for ensuring
that security technology has been implemented in accordance with the
organisation's security policy.

Specific items to be considered under this area also include control
over safety critical and process control information, and security logs
and the need for real-time alarms to detect intruders, where
appropriate.  It is important to be realistic about controls and not be
overlook simple matters such as the possibility of passwords being
sold.

Requirements

•       Guidelines for establishment of security administration
function

•       recommendation on moving towards commonality of laws on data
privacy and protection, particularly relating to individuals

•       means to provide increased awareness and relevant education and
training

•       guidelines for consideration of balanced security, taking
account of level of risk in different areas (physical, personnel,
hardware, software, data, etc).

4.1.3.  Security Objectives for Enterprises

Issue

Definition of Security Objectives for enterprises.

Discussion

A security objective is a description of what security the enterprise
is trying to achieve eg why this security control/function is wanted.
It is a mission statement of the user/enterprise which describes why an
aspect of security is needed. It is a user/business target or purpose
to which security is being addressed. For example, consider the subject
of data integrity and the objective "Prevent unauthorised modification
to data". The security objective has the objective "Appropriate
mechanisms should exist to preserve the integrity of data". For example
this may be related to data held on a medical database, on a company
financial database, in airline reservation system or a geography
information system.

The organisation of security; within enterprises in terms of
business control structures or in the case of some user environment (eg
legal, accounting, audit etc.) and functions (eg IT, human resources,
insurance) needs to be integrated with a set of security policies,
standards (both public and in-house), and made compliant with laws and
regulations (eg computer crime manual), guidelines and codes of
practice etc.

The process of producing a security policy; may require the use of a
set of security methodologies, tools and evaluation criteria. For
example risk analysis methods, baseline controls, and evaluation
criteria (eg ITSEC, Federal Criteria etc.).

Security objectives; thus encompasses a set of objectives (and
possibly sub-objectives) and a set of related issues that reflect
specific points of concern, problems, questions relative to business
requirements, controls and applications.

The diagram below shows the relationship between Security objectives,
Security organisation, and Security methodologies;. Laws apply to
the user environment directly.  Their presence generates some of the
security objectives.  Standards may be both mandatory and
discretionary, and may incorporate methodologies.  The final box covers
security methods and techniques.





Requirements

•       Standard techniques for drawing-up security policies for
typical situations

•       methods and techniques for agreeing levels of security and
security objectives.

4.1.4.  Exploiting  Security and Innovation

Issue

To establish how service providers and vendors could exploit the
benefits of innovation without compromising security and safety.

Discussion

Vendors and service providers need to innovate to survive commercially.
They have strong vested interest in ensuring that their products are
adequately secure and safe. Businesses by their very nature need to
take risks to survive and this commercial imperative for a risk taking
culture has to be reconciled with the needs for an inherently  risk
averse security and safety culture in a way that is effective yet does
not stifle innovation.

There are many aspects to innovation. On the one hand there is
innovations which change the technology that is being used to implement
systems (eg from electrical or electronic to programmable). Other
innovations concern the domains of application (new forms of command
and control, remote diagnosis and maintenance, ultra-critical
applications) and other innovations concern the technology. This can
either be in the technologies deployed (eg new forms of fault
tolerance, different types of open systems) or in the technologies used
to develop systems (eg code generation. novel testing regimes, formal
methods, neural nets).

These innovations are likely to continue the trend for greater
integration and internationalisation of systems, a convergence of
dependability safety and security problems, a blurring in the
distinction between hardware and software. Systems are likely to more
open in the past, and  be the result of evolution and make grate use of
components already deployed in other applications.  The safety and
security concerns will change as a system evolves and changes in the
environment of a system (eg organisational changes, removal of other
systems ensuring safety) can cause a system to evolve into a  higher
level of criticality.

There is a need that the measures taken to provide confidence in
systems can cope with these innovations and that businesses have
predictable certification or regulatory costs where these are relevant.
This has a number of implications for the regulatory and certification
regimes and poses challenges to the standards making process.

Innovation can bring with it new hazards. There is a need to identify
these and either remove them via redesign, provide measures to tolerate
them or at worst, measures to mitigate their consequences.

Requirements

•       Assessment methods for impacts of changes on systems

•       procedural and regulatory framework needs to address
convergence of safety and security, etc (implications for standards)

•       methods for identifying early on where innovations are likely
to be unacceptable from a safety perspective or will result in such
economic penalties that they are not viable commercially.

4.1.5.  Sectoral Specifics

Issue

Beyond the normal requirements common to different business sectors and
user environments there may also be additional requirements and
priorities specific to the operational nature and commercial mission of
a particular business. These specific requirements can be normally
expressed in terms of codes of practice and baseline controls.

Discussion

Legal and regulatory provisions can be supported by Codes of Practice
in an attempt to achieve due care and diligence. There are those of
general application and those that are industry specific. A general
Code of Practice may achieved by  the establishment of a security
management handbook, maybe based upon the approach taken for achieving
a Quality code of practice (ISO9000). The application of information
security is a prerequisite for the successful conduct of business for
particular sectors, especially when these sectors a highly interactive.
The traditionally prominent among them are:

•       Finance

•       Trade

•       Medical

•       Telecommunications

•       Manufacturing industry

•       Process industry

•       Administrations.

There may be other market led requirements, that will result in a
different security based segmentation.

Requirements

•       Consolidation and development of a set of Codes of Practice and
baseline controls addressing specific business sector requirements.

4.1.6.  Security Domains

Issue

Openness and protection.

Discussion

In practice, the level of information security is dynamically adapted
to a given situation. This leads to the concept of Dynamic IS
Management and the need to be able to define domains, in which
information security is applied homogeneously.

Domains are user groupings sharing some of their functions and support.
For some activities they operate as virtually closed user groups, but
have the possibility to interwork with other domains as long as certain
minimum requirements ensure no loss of trust or a transparent
downgrading.

The notion of a security domain is therefore important for two reasons.
Namely,

•       It can be used to describe how security is managed and
administered, and

•       It can be used as a building block in modelling security
relevant activities that involve elements under distinct security
authorities.

Examples of domain activities are:

•       accesses to elements (eg a database for network management)

•       a communications link

•       operations relating to a specific management function

•       non-repudiation operations involving a notary.

The organisation of security within enterprises in terms of business
control structures or in the case of some user environment (eg legal,
accounting, audit etc.) and functions (eg IT, human resources,
insurance) needs to be supported by a set of security policies,
standards (both public and in-house), laws and regulations (eg computer
crime manual), guidelines and codes of practice etc.

The security policy defines what is meant by security within the
domain, the rules by which security may be obtained to the satisfaction
of the security authority, and the activities to which it applies. The
security policy may also define which rules apply in relations with
other security domains in general, and in relations with particular
other security domains.

The management of inter-domain openness and protection may be different
depending on similarities in purpose, and agreements will be needed to
achieve appropriate levels of assurance. Mechanisms by which TTPs
achieve efficient, coherent management of policies, procedures and
controls between domains need development:

Requirements

•       Mechanisms for management of policies, procedures and controls
between domains for TTPs

•       generation of guidelines for domain creation, management and
control

•       development of a common framework for domain interworking

•       agreement on management, TTPs, accreditation, auditing and
relations with law enforcement agencies.

4.1.7.  Security Labelling

Issue

Transfer of information among domains requires agreements on the
expression of the sensitivity of information, ie the syntax and
semantics of the associated information labels, and of the procedures
and mechanisms for handling labelled information.

Discussion

The basis for the trustworthiness of a domain and the trust between
domains is the assurance that the processes that are used to manipulate
information behave in a way that corresponds to the protection
requirements of the information in terms of confidentiality and
possession, integrity and authenticity, and availability and utility.

Labels are a method for expressing the sensitivity of information.
They can be based on different scales, like the value of information or
the impact of a security breach affecting the information.

The need for comprehensive labels has become acute because of the
increasing degree to which organisations interoperate electronically.
This has led to increased reliance on technical measures to achieve
adequate security. It is quite feasible for trusted systems to switch
on or off technical measures automatically providing that the label
adequately expresses the security requirement associated with a piece
of information. Labels could then be used to make decisions on
information routing, transmission enveloping, requirements for
confirmation and so on.

However, decisions on information routing etc.  cannot be made without
user labelling, that is, some indicator of the categories of
information which can be allowed into end systems or to users.

Organisations have to agree on the range of options that do meet any
particular security requirement. Part of the solution to the handling
of labelled information lies in the development of Codes of Practice
specifying procedures and mechanisms. There is also a need for
accreditation and audit of communicating partners. The introduction of
independent third parties avoids the pairwise interactions that would
otherwise be necessary to establish trust.

Requirements

•       Guidelines for security labelling.

•       standard on how to express labels and on the meanings of a
basic set of security labels

•       Codes of Practice and accreditation methods for domains
claiming to support standard labels, and their mutual recognition.

4.1.8.  Administration of Access to Security Related Data;

Issue

Support of functions for the administration of security related data.

Discussion

Management of rights is an administrative function available to both
security administrators and resource owners.  While management
functions reserved to security administrators can be rather
sophisticated, functions available to resource owners have to be kept
simple and easy to use.  The management of rights can be separated into
security information related to users (eg privileges, keys and/or
passwords) and security information related to resources (eg access
control lists, labels; keys).  Management functions need to be
performed form the place where the administrator/resource owner is
sitting and apply to a number of remote resources.  It is therefore
important that the management of access rights is done in a secure
fashion (eg using appropriate security protocols).

Requirements

•       Easy to use tools for access right management and key
management

•       secure solutions for remote administration

•       awareness for control issues concerning security related data,
and implications of non-action.

4.1.9.  Security Requirements for Individual Users

Issue

Individuals and small companies have "enterprise requirements" but
often have little opportunity to choose appropriate security protection
when dealing with large organisations (eg equipment and software
suppliers, service suppliers, banks).

Discussion

The individual user, in their role as a private citizen or as a member
of a liberal profession (eg a lawyer or medical doctor), has a natural
interest, and sometimes a legal requirement, to protect some of their
information. Unlike in the case of the enterprise, the individual user
will not normally go through a systematic process of establishing
goals, definition of security objectives, etc., unless they are subject
to professional standards of conduct.

The individual normally has at his disposal a PC (or small network of
PCs) and some communication links, eg telephone, fax, e-mail. Often
physical security is likely to be weak.

Most liberal profession work under some codes of practice or conduct.
These codes are of a general nature and do not normally specify
particular security arrangements.

The common and specific requirements of individual users, with regard
to the protection of their computer installation (physical and
electronic), the protection of their data (against accidental and
deliberate loss) and the protection of their communications (eg signed
communications, privacy enhanced communications) must be established.

The individual user has also an interest that the totality of
processing of any matters relating to the user is correct and
confidential to the extent required.

Requirements

•       User profiles identifying standard types of users together with
typical requirements.

4.2.    Requirements for Security Functions





4.2.1.  Access Control

Issue

Access control procedures to many systems need to be standardised and
well managed to meet their objectives.

Discussion

Computer systems and services impose control procedures on persons (or
other systems) attempting to access them directly or over local or
wide-area networks. These access control procedures apply to
"connections"; that is, they determine whether or not a connection,
association or session is allowed to be established. These control
procedures have been often primitive and relatively insecure, as the
occurrence of "hacking" demonstrates.

The requirement for secure access control is not confined to access to
host computers by persons at terminals. Reciprocal (mutual) access
control is often needed between two (or sometimes more) systems. Access
control can apply across general telecommunication networks,
determining (for example) who may call whom by telephone; or who may
receive which programme on a cable TV network. In addition to applying
to end-to-end (trans-network) communications, access control also
applies to users and (even more importantly) operators accessing the
network and to access by human users to terminal devices.

Although the importance of access control is widely recognised, the
practical application of security techniques in solving the problem is
more limited. This is for a variety of reasons including technical
complexity, lack of agreed standards and lack of user acceptability.

Secure access control relies on a mixture of:

•       identification mechanisms; (authentic naming;)
identifying the remote person or system

•       authorisation mechanisms;, determining the authority of the
remote person or system to carry out different types of actions

•       random (unpredictable) components;, affording protection
against the re-use of once-valid access control messages under invalid
circumstances (replay)

•       cryptographic techniques to protect the above from
modification, copying, etc.

Without some analysis of access control scenarios, followed by some
outline standardisation work, users and systems are going to find
themselves having to implement and use (depending on their current
application) a range of incompatible techniques, which in turn rely on
only partially interoperable infrastructures (such as naming and
identification authorities, certification authorities, key management
systems, directory services, etc.).

Access control very often involves only two parties: one making the
access and one granting/denying the access.  In some environments this
is however inadequate as some intermediaries cannot do the access on
their behalf but on the behalf of someone else.  This applies in a
number of cases, in particular for distributed applications or
transaction processing.  For example, in a distributed service the
requester addresses its request to the nearest server able to fulfil
the service and then the request has to be forwarded so that it can be
honoured by the appropriate server within the service. This problem is
called delegation.

For the server point of view different policies may apply: it may be
interested only by the privileges of the initial requester and by the
privileges of all the intermediaries.  The access control decision may
then be based on the properties of the initial requester only or on all
of the entities involved.  In addition restrictions about what
intermediaries are or are not allowed to do may be specified by the
initial requester.

There is a need for widely accepted solutions to the most common access
control scenarios.

Requirements

•       Group access control scenarios and schemes based on levels of
commonality

•       techniques, products, specifications and standards addressing
access control matched to the scenarios identified

•       parameters common to most or all of the above techniques,
products, specifications and standards and the feasibility of
establishing common formats for them

•       identification of the key features for coherence in the
supporting infrastructure

•       basic access control mechanisms for pilot implementation

•       development of delegation scenarios

•       identification of techniques, products, specifications and
standards addressing delegation and their association with the
identified scenarios.

4.2.2.  Requirements for Electronic Cash

Issue

A general purpose system is needed for providing electronic cash.

Discussion

The securing of electronic cash shares some problems with negotiable
documents, and may also need additional properties such as privacy
(untraceability) and dividability.

Large scale solutions already exist for paying small amounts of money
in special situations, such as special cards for telephones and
travel.  Other systems exist for large amounts of money - prepayment
and credit cards;.  Between these two, there is a need for a system
to make general purpose payments for relatively small amounts of
money.  This means that the system must have low transaction costs, and
will thus be able to compete with existing special cards.

The system should ideally include the following properties:

•       unlimited transferability (from one user to another)

•       dividability into any sub-amount required

•       independence from on-line TTP services

•       privacy / untraceability

•       security and uniqueness - ie cannot be forged or copied.

It should give users complete control over the amount transferred in
each transaction, and allow them to know the amount remaining.  It
should be relatively easy to refill the device with electronic money,
possibly via unsecured network services.

Requirements

•       Agreement on the concepts underlying electronic cash

•       international standards.

4.2.3.  Requirements for Security Services

Issue

Various security services have been identified. Agreement on their
requirements must be established.

Discussion

A variety of security services has bee identified.  Although several of
these are used in practice at a limited scale,  their general
requirements have not yet been agreed and their availability to the
general user is not yet established. Some of the more important
services are described below.

Non-Repudiation Services

Non-repudiation of origin respectively receipt means that a particular
user, called the originator respectively the receiver, cannot repudiate
(ie deny) to have signed respectively received a particular electronic
document. It does not prove who has actually created the document. We
have exactly the same problem with paper documents: the fact that
someone puts his signature on a hand-written transcript of music does
not mean he is the composer.

Non-repudiations services are precisely the services which in
electronic communication can cover all legal functionalities of a
hand-written signature, but in a much more secure way: The main
difference is that the digital signature which supports the
non-repudiation provides a logical connection to the message.

Claim of Origin

Copyright is a very important security service in the electronic
handling of a document. The major problem with enforcing copyright of,
say, a software program, is that of two different versions it is
difficult to decide which one is the original. This problem is of
course not restricted to electronic documents only. In fact, one runs
into exactly the same kind of problems as in the paper world.

The service required here is "claim of origin". This is the counterpart
to non-repudiation in the sense that the point is to allow the creator
to prove who created the document, as opposed to non-repudiation of
origin, which allows everybody to prove that someone has signed a
particular document (which typically commits him to something). The
difference is that with non-repudiation services, the receiver is able
to prove something, whereas claim of origin pertains to the
transmitter.

Claim of ownership

Some conventional physical documents, such as eg the bill of lading and
the bill of exchange, must be negotiable. The possession of the
document must allow to give title to anybody who can present it. The
electronic equivalent is also needed.

The goal to achieve here is that an electronic document at any
particular time can be proved to be the (temporary) property of a
particular user.

With ordinary paper documents, the problem is solved by giving the
original of a document certain physical attributes that are difficult
to reproduce. With this precaution, it makes sense to speak of the
original of a document, and define the owner simply as the person
holding the original.

Negotiable documents entail that their physical uniqueness must be
protected against duplication; it must be easy to distinguish a copy
from its original. This is the case with hand signed paper documents;
the hand-written signature cannot be copied such that the copy could
not be distinguished from the original. Although a digital signature
does protect the integrity of the signed electronic document, it can,
however, easily be copied so that the physical original cannot be
distinguished from its copies.

This impedes the usage of electronic communication eg in maritime
trade. The sender of a cargo produces a unique document, the bill of
lading, hands a copy to the shipper and sends the protected original to
the receiver. The receiver may trade the original and its title or keep
it. Whoever presents the original to the shipper will be handed over
the cargo.

The shortcoming of the paper bill of lading is the fact that it takes
time to transport it, particularly as it is a piece of value and must
be well

protected. Therefore, an electronic substitute should be found that
protects the uniqueness of the original document, and which can be
transacted over communication systems. The technique should support
recovery after equipment or communication failure.

Besides issuing negotiable documents there are other ways of securing
correct title to property. Instead of a person proving his claim by the
presence of a token, the claim may be addressed to a distinct person
who then is expected to prove his identity. This is the case with the
freight bill, which is another way to deliver a cargo to the authentic
receiver. However, the freight bill cannot be traded as effectively as
the bill of lading.

The provision of electronic negotiable documents must include:

•       document uniqueness, ie a document should only exist in one
single valid copy (and can therefore not be sold more than once by an
owner)

•       document authenticity, ie a document should not be able to
alter, and the origin of a document should be possible to identify

•       transferability, ie the document should be possible to transfer
through communication networks

•       fail-safe storage and communication, ie recovery after failure
should be possible both when document is stored and transferred between
parties.

One should expect that, unless proper electronic documents will be
available, the use of paper for negotiable documents will be continued
at the expense of effectiveness and more paper.

Transaction of negotiable documents are often a part of a larger
business transaction, eg the seller of a document receives a payment,
or negotiable documents are exchanged between the parties. When such
transactions are taking place over a telecommunication network, there
might be a need for a service

giving fair exchanges of values, ie a service that can guarantee that
either

will the whole exchange be performed or it will perform no exchange.
Such a service will secure fraud during exchange of values.

Fair Exchange of Values

When negotiable trade documents change hands, they are often handed
over in exchange for something else, for example another negotiable
document, some form of payment, or simply some piece of information
that may be of sufficient value to the receiver.

The party who gives a document away may of course be concerned with the
possibility that he may not receive in exchange the object or the
information he was supposed to.

If the parties meet physically and exchange ordinary documents, this
concern may not be very serious; an attempt of abuse is likely to be
detected early enough to prevent a successful fraud. In the world of
(interactive) EDI, however, the problem can be more serious. Efficient
communication is possible over great distances with parties to which
there may be little or no existing business relations. Such parties may
well be found worthy of less trust than those with which physical
meetings can be arranged.

Untraceability

As electronic registration and transportation of data becomes more
common, there are an increasing number of scenarios where individuals
face new threats against their privacy. Since many types of personal
data can easily be traced to particular individuals, the fact that the
data are electronically stored introduces the possibility that  someone
could efficiently collect comprehensive dossiers on individuals, even
without this becoming known to the users themselves.

In its most general form, anonymity or untraceability is a service with
the goal of preventing such personal data from being traced and
collected.

The issue is therefore to allow accesses, calls or transactions to be
performed without revealing the identity of the user.

In some cases, anonymity of the user is required or identification of
the user is unnecessary.  Examples where anonymity is required are
about electronic cash or electronic shopping where this is related to
the privacy of the user.  Practical cases are about road toll systems
and mobile phone billing without revealing location history of user.
Examples where identification of the user is unnecessary by the target
system is where a service is opened to thousands of users but where
subscription to the service is not managed directly by the service but
by another company: The service manager is only interested in the fact
that charges can be paid when the service is used.  Who is using the
service is not relevant.  In some cases the user would also like to
know that the service manager is not able to trace back the user.

Another category where anonymity is required is non-traceable calls.
Reporting fraud or corruption will only happen if the call (either
phone or e-mail) is not traceable to the caller.

There is a need to have mechanisms able to fulfil these needs.  However
these kinds of techniques should not be used when there is at the same
time a requirement of auditability.  For cases where both requirements
exist there can be solutions where tracing an event can only be
achieved by co-operation between different auditors.

Time-Stamping

In electronic communications, a digital equivalent is required for the
date and time stamp in the paper world. Such a time stamp must be
issued by an organisation that is trusted. If time stamps are simply
attached internally by the sender or receiver of a message, then, in
case of litigation, it will be difficult to establish if these were
erroneous or have been forged.

In direct communications, both parties may agree on a mutual time
reference, but in store-and-forward type communications time stamping
by a third party is particularly important .

Depending on sectoral differences, different granularities of time
stamps may be needed. Some sectors may be content with the date, some
with the nearest second.

Requirements

•       Scenarios for the use of electronic security services

•       user specifications for electronic security services

•       establishment of international application rules that can
operate under the different legal frameworks and that ensure
international communicability

•       identification of different scenarios where it is appropriate
for the public interest to mask or hide the identity of the end user,
taking into account the balance between full anonymity and audit.

4.2.4.  Digital Signature

4.2.4.1.        The Individual Right to Signature

Issue

Individuals have the right to sign any information.

Discussion

Like with hand-written signatures, anybody is entitled to use a digital
signature. Therefore, the distribution of keys for the purpose of
signature must be non-discriminatory and non-restrictive. Separate from
the signature is the question of entitlement, ie if a certain person is
empowered to sign a certain element of information, document or
transaction.

Signature verification is therefore a two step process: formal
verification of the signature and verification of the entitlement of
the sender. This process is depicted below.



It is assumed in this simple model, that the sender adds his
certificate (name plus his public key) to the signed document. The
formal verification then establishes that a person with a certain name
has correctly applied his signature and that the document has not been
modified in transfer. Verification of entitlement checks that the name
has the legal power to sign a particular document.

Note that as a consequence, the powers given to a person should not be
included in the attributes of the certificate, otherwise any change in
these powers would invalidate the certificate.

The situation maybe further complicated by the fact that several
signatures maybe required for certain documents, eg husband and wife
plus notary, two company directors.

Requirements

•       Clarification of the right to signature and the attached
entitlement.

4.2.4.2.        Consistency of Legal Principles for Digital
Signatures

Issue

The legal functions have to be clearly identified for the authority of
digital signatures, before a code-of-practice can be developed and
introduced.

Discussion

In legal practice security and functional requirements for hand-written
signatures differ widely. In some cases a hand-written signature is
only to indicate that the signer has concluded his train of thought or
his expression of will; under the given circumstances its authenticity
may be obvious and needs not be provable. In other cases, for evidence,
the signature must be provably authentic. In yet other cases
authenticity requirements may demand attestation or even ask for more
than one person's signature or for public notification.

The spectrum of legal requirements can be matched by the spectrum of
technical realisations which may differ with respect to security
provisions just as widely as legal requirements. Yet the signing
process must be transparent to the signer. For this reason it must
follow standardised rules; specific man-machine interfaces must be
familiar to the signer; ie they must follow a standardised layout
principle.

For ease of transition (in judicial thinking) from hand-written to
digital signatures traditional functional requirements for hand-written
signatures should be met by the technical implementation of digital
signatures as closely as possible.

A particular problem is the validity period of a digital signature. One
must distinguish the validity period of the signature itself and the
validity period of the entitlement.

The validity period of the digital signature; itself may have to be
limited for technical reasons. These reasons include:

•       Insufficient key length;. One may discover that some years
from now, new progress in mathematics and technology makes it plausible
that keys of the originally chosen limited length can be broken. (For
instance, several European banks have introduced remote banking with
RSA keys of length 512 bits. One cannot guarantee that this will be
safe in 10 years, or even less, from now.)

•       Poor key generation;. One cannot be sure that programs at
the desired quality level will be used by all key management centres.
Hence users of those key management centres may find that their keys
are breakable, and they have to cancel their certificates.

•       Weak protection of workstation;. The secret key of a user
may be compromised accidentally or through negligence. It may also be
possible to tap the password of a user through a Trojan horse on his PC
and subsequently get access to the secret key. (Fraudulent users may
even claim this happened, and give away their key on purpose, in order
to dispute that a certain signature did originate from them.)

Taking the necessary precautions, and taking a differentiated approach
to the validity period of signatures, then most digital signatures
would fall inside the scope of applicability of hand written signatures

The entitlement attached to a signature normally changes much faster.
The authority given to a person should therefore not be included in the
attributes of the certificate, otherwise any change in entitlement
would invalidate the certificate.

However, in all the work that has been carried out so far, there is no
solution offered to the following problem: If messages have been signed
with a key and needs to be kept for a number of years, and that key is
denounced by the user as being compromised, how can the value of the
already calculated signature be left intact? One possibility might be
to use a TTP for time stamping, but further study into this problem
seems in place. An example may illustrate this point.

If a user A signs a message in 1993, which has legal consequences to
user B until 2003, and A then cancels his certificate in year 1995,
claiming that his key has been compromised, he will probably claim that
the signed document from 1993 was falsified in 1995 by B, who could
have bought a copy of A's secret key. However, if B upon receipt in
1993 had gone to a TTP and had the signature of A time stamped and
signed by the TTP, or even registered, he can prove that A in fact did
produce the said signature back in 1993.

For some sectors and/or applications the granularity of the time
stamping will be critical. It is conceivable that trusted time down to
one second accuracy will be needed.

Requirements

•       EC-wide/international agreement on the legal functions of
signatures;

•       clarification of the conditions of acceptance of the
authority of a digital signature;, eg for legally binding purposes,
ie as substitute for hand-written original signatures

•       recommendation for the implementation for a public digital
signature scheme; for use by business, administrations and the general
public

•       legislative rules and, where appropriate, liabilities, for
keys, certificates and TTPs to cover revocation of any or all the
entities involved in the “chain of proof” needed in the signature
technique.

4.2.4.3.        Universal Acceptance of Digital Signatures

Issue

For digital signatures to become a full alternative to hand-written
signature universal acceptance is required.

Discussion

All functions of the hand-written signature should also apply to
digital signatures.

Where legal functions are carried out by digital signature, consensus
with the legal profession is essential.

Requirements

•       Development, together with the legal profession, of
recommendations for the practical use of digital signatures as a full
equivalent to hand-written signatures in legal transactions

•       demonstration, through pilot projects, that digital signatures
can be used as equivalent to hand-written signatures

•       inclusion in the curriculum of relevant educational institutes
(eg engineering, law and business schools) the use of digital
signature.

4.2.5.  Privacy enhancement ;issues

4.2.5.1.        Perception of Requirements for Privacy Enhancement

Issue

Confidentiality is, at times, essential for the good functioning of
administrations, business and human relations.

Discussion

Business user of telecommunications and information systems cannot
obtain full business benefit without confidentiality services being
available. There is a clear need for confidentiality services in the
exchange of information in the business as well as in the private use.
Today the exchange of sensitive information requiring confidentiality
is often done in non-electronic form because for electronic
transmission “confidentiality” is either not available or its use not
permitted. With the increasing demand for fast exchange of all kind of
data, demand for confidentiality;“confidentiality” will become
pressing. It is already present in some applications such as medical
information systems.

Most business and private users of communication systems are aware of
the conflict between their confidentiality requirements and national
security issues which require the possibility to intercept the
communication in a way regulated by national laws. They accept the
national authorities ability for this interception provided there are
adequate safeguards to prevent unauthorised interception even by
government employees.

Expectations of confidentiality of electronic message services can
currently not be met in the absence of international standards or
internationally accepted methods. Uptake of these services by
commercial users to support business processes will therefore have a
natural limit, ie to those messages that someone usually writes on a
postcard. Examples of commercially sensitive information includes
pricing and bidding strategies, mergers and take-overs, or from a
privacy point of view (transmission of personnel and medical data).

User needs for confidentiality, user needs

In analogy with confidentiality offered by existing physical mail and
archiving services, ie envelopes, registration, courier services, etc.,
there is a need for confidentiality in the situation of electronic
interchange and storage of data. Even more so because electronic data
can much more easily be copied or disclosed in its usual form, eg only
channel coding and formatting as the "envelope", than its physical
counterpart.

At present certain unclassified but sensitive information on physical
media such as paper, microfilm, or photograph, of business enterprises
or medical centres are protected against unauthorised disclosure by
physical and procedural methods.

Today the trend is towards more electronic communication and storage of
data and hence there is a need for appropriate confidentiality services
in an agreed or standardised form to be readily available for all users
of electronic information systems.

Service provision

The extent to which confidentiality services are provided for a
specific business or citizen could depend on a system of licenses or
certificates.

A particular business might qualify for a confidentiality license
depending on its internal procedures and activities. A general
(minimum) level of confidentiality could be provided to all users.

It should be possible for certain user groups or businesses to use
other confidential services (eg proprietary) than the standard ones
provided.

There are strong indications of emerging "bottom up" solutions for
these needs (eg the Pretty Good Privacy offering on Internet, beginning
1993).

Other initiatives (eg the announcement of the "Clipper Chip", 16 April
1993) illustrate the growing awareness of governments of the needs of
their citizens for confidentiality services.

Awareness

In general users of electronic data processing systems are not aware of
the threats involved in using those systems. Only after they have
noticed (the consequences of) an unwanted or unauthorised disclosure of
their information will they start to think of the inherent
vulnerability of the system they are using. In view of this one should
try to create more security awareness. Users, service providers,
operators and authorities should achieve a certain minimum level of
awareness of the issues involved in using confidentiality services
before embarking on their use.

Granularity (meeting differentiated needs)

Confidentiality services at different granularity and for different
types of telecommunication services are needed. Based on his risk
analysis the user can then decide which level of confidentiality he
needs and then use the services which provides this required level.

Some users may want a range of services of different assurance levels
(analogy of courier services, registered mail, ordinary mail). Some
users may want visibility of assurances to different extents.

Impact of loss of information ;and Impact of theft of information

By its nature, actual risks and impacts of disclosure are hard to
quantify. But the absence of a baseline of protection of
confidentiality will undoubtedly have a negative impact on commercial
(and other) usage of international electronic communications in a wide
range of business processes.

Actors and roles

Individuals may have a number of roles in more than one organisation -
these need defining or clarifying. Their "role" as a private citizen is
an important case. The organisations that act as custodians of roles
need to be classified also. These are essential ingredients for domain
management.

Mutual confidence and TTPs; TTPs (mutual confidence of)

Users and mechanisms to ensure that they get assurance of compliance to
agreed “rules of procedure” from their trading partners, or other
private citizens, with whom they are interacting using confidentiality
services. TTPs are one mechanism for achieving this, but other lower
assurance, lower cost solutions may also need to be considered.

Requirements

•       Frameworks and architectures which are accepted as well by the
business users as by the national security agencies and the service
providers

•       standards for services and service provision

•       compatibility of confidentiality services with existing
communication standards and practices where possible

•       verification of practicability of proposed solutions through
suitable pilot projects

•       model contracts for confidentiality services

•       awareness improvement of sector actors of the potential losses
due to the absence of confidentiality services.

4.2.5.2.        The Case for the Provision of Public Confidentiality
Services

Issue

The provision of public confidentiality services have to reconcile the
needs of the business sector and general public with the obligation of
public authorities to provide adequate protection while at the same
time maintaining its capability to fight organised crime, maintain
public order and national security.

A well developed public confidentiality service would provide for the
obligations in a transparent manner.

Discussion

Business operates increasingly in an international and open
environment. The communications take place via private and public
networks. Modern network management techniques use alternative routing
depending on traffic conditions. This implies that the physical
communication is under the control of a variety of intermediaries
working under different regulatory and legal conditions for data
protection and privacy, and therefore one must consider the network as
inherently vulnerable. This means that end-to-end protection is
required. This applies also to the general public using international
public telephone networks.

It is a fact that business and the general public have been addressing
their needs with public domain solutions (published algorithms and
freely available software). However, the approach is awkward and its
utility therefore limited, since, for example, there is no public
directory and he has to manage the keys himself. A public solutions
open to all users requiring electronic signature and confidentiality
would remove the need for the use of ad hoc solutions. It would also
provide for a transparent solution to the need for legally authorised
intercepts.

If a public confidentiality scheme is offered, organised crime could
also subscribe to such a scheme, but as it would include provisions for
legal intercept, it would hardly be attractive. One would expect that
such users would continue to find their own solutions as will the
classified domain.

An open and public service offering a credible level of confidentiality
would therefore provide for the honest user, while not worsening the
situation with respect to public order or national security.

The combination of international communication and national security
regulations require a common framework for confidentiality services,
which on the one hand interoperate within all Community Member States
as well as with countries outside the Community which themselves may
establish their confidentiality services. This requires either an
overlay approach or gateways which link the different national or
regional services. These gateways are only required where multinational
agreements for co-operation on national security concerns is not yet
established. In this case these gateways may provide at least an
interim solution.

In order to fulfil its function and eliminate the need for “home-made"
solutions, the public confidentiality service must be open to
world-wide use and provide its service in a non-discriminatory way.

Confidentiality services should ensure that

•       Users are protected and obtain assurance against non authorised
interception and disclosure.

•       The confidentiality service is of high (technical, procedural)
quality and evaluated as such by all Member States.

•       Authorised disclosure of the protected user information (undo
the confidentiality service) is under certain well-defined
circumstances possible, eg by secret-sharing.

With this approach, confidentiality mechanisms details (description) do
not need to be published or disclosed to the public in general.

While the use must be largely unrestricted, the systems and sub-systems
or equipment for the independent implementation of aforementioned
confidentiality services can be made subject of export controls, eg
export is possible if :

•       The users comply with the rules of the exporting nation
(end-user declaration) with respect to the disclosure mechanism.

•       Multinational business users form EC countries with "central"
organisations.

•       Other countries on a bilateral agreement liaise with EC if they
comply with the rules.

Export restrictions are, inter alia, based on the concern that
cryptography may be used by hostile governments or other organisations
for the concealment of subversive information. The same concern does
not apply to the use of cryptography for integrity and authenticity
enhancing service.

There are technical solutions to provide only integrity, integrity plus
signature, and integrity, signature and confidentiality.
Confidentiality enhancement is de facto only meaningful in
communications with also the two other functions being provided.

The problem remains that organised crime and hostile governments are
not restrained from adopting public domain solutions or from developing
“home-made” mechanisms. Furthermore they are able to exploit legitimate
users of systems and solutions to their own ends by use of
“traditional” criminal mechanisms of bribery, blackmail or threats to
personal safety. Legislation could discourage non-authorised use, but
cannot be expected to prevent it, particularly in the case of organised
crime. Restrictive legislation impacts the “law-abiding user” much
stronger than others.

Choice versus interoperability

The users and service providers may feel the need to choose solutions
to achieve the assurance levels they require. But interoperability will
dictate a limited set of possible choices being available, and costs of
service provision will also focus debate onto efficient solutions.

Advice and instruction versus prohibition

This may vary from country to country, however certain minimum-rules
will need to be adhered to between parties offering interworking public
schemes which includes beyond simply usage also systems and sub-systems
or equipment for the independent implementation of such confidentiality
services

The confidentiality that users enjoy will depend upon the robustness of
the service that is offered. This in turn will depend upon the
robustness of the architectures available to perceived threats: key
theft, masquerade, deliberate denial of service, inadequate disaster
recovery are examples of threats the vulnerability to which may be
different for alternate architectures.

Mechanisms are needed that provide for a defined way to pass from one
domain to another. This will require collective or multilateral
agreements for interoperation.

Requirements

•       Architecture that minimises service vulnerability

•       framework for the provision of trans-domain confidentiality
services

•       guidelines for pan-European confidentiality service providers
(including accountability)

•       model contract for relationship between service providers
across national boundaries

•       assurance criteria for service providers and operators

•       accreditation process for mutual recognition.

4.2.6.  Use of Names; and Certification of Credentials

Issue

Use of names and of credentials (eg the public key) in international
communications.

Discussion

Name Assignment and Certifications Authorities are Trusted Third
Parties. Their purpose is to allow for individual and authentic
addressing of communication system users by means of their
authenticated Distinguished Names. A user may ask a Naming Assignment
Authority for a Distinguished Name. The Naming Authority will give him
a Relative Distinguished Name and supplement it by its own
Distinguished Name to the user's Distinguished Name. Thus, although a
person may ask several Naming Authorities for the same Relative
Distinguished Name, each of his Distinguished Names will be unique,
because the Distinguished Names of the Naming Authorities, by
definition, will be unique. The concept of an agent that handles the
interfaces between the end-user and the naming authorities is important
in providing a user friendly interface to this process.

The two functions of name assignment (or identification) and
certification are “binding” operations. Name assignment binds a
particular name to an entity (a person or device), and certification
binds certain credentials to a name. The diagram below shows the double
binding process.







A Distinguished Name; and a unique cryptographic Public Key ;are
made part of the user's Credentials. The Public Key can be used to
verify a (ciphertext) signature which has been effected by the user's
complementary Secret Key (not contained in the Credentials).
Credentials are signed/certified by the Certification Authority. Thus
the user's Certificate consists of the Credentials, their signature by
the Certification Authority and, if necessary, the Certification
Authority's own Certificate. The user is given his certificate,
preferably in a tamper resistant chipcard.

After signing a message with his Secret Key; the user concatenates
his Certificate to the message and its signature. The receiver of the
signed message can use the Certification Authority's widely available
Public Key to verify the signer's Certificate and Public Key. With the
latter the authenticity and integrity of the message can be verified.

The security services related to name assignment and certification need
further standardisation as well as legal recognition, both preferably
on an international level.

The United States have already begun to apply relevant US national
standards. Therefore, corresponding standardisation action should be
started on a European level. Its results should be made the basis for a
European contribution to international standardisation. At the same
time an interface toward a legal usage of naming and certification
services should be defined to ease the adaptation to and to provide for
the compatibility of the various EC legal systems.

Other related issues are pseudonyms and anonymity, for which a business
requirement has been identified. Different degrees of anonymity should
be provided for according to the specific needs in digital cash,
tele-shopping, registration in data bases for statistical purpose etc.

As described above, the ability to sign a piece of data is to be
distinguished from the entitlement an entity possesses.  This
relationship is depicted below:







It is necessary to identify requirements and to develop guidelines for
the use of names, in relation to:

>       requirements to meet by naming authorities

>       requirements to meet by the user

>       naming principles

>       format of Distinguished Name/Relative Distinguished Name

>       handling protocol between naming authorities, user and
certification authority

>       change of names

>       recording of information pertinent to de-referencing of names
(by the Directory).

It is further necessary to develop guidelines covering the creation and
use of certificates, in relation to:

>       certificate semantics and format

>       certificate handling (production, issuance)

>       signature and its certification (method, process)

>       authentication of certificate owner (method, process)

>       expiry dates

>       renewal of certificates (periodical)

>       renewal of TTP public key (periodical)

>       handling compromises of secret information (secret keys, PIN
etc.)

>       revocation of certificates and notification

>       black listing and execution of certificates

>       security standards to be met by certification authorities.

Requirements

•       Guidelines covering the use of names

•       guidelines covering the use of certificates.

4.2.7.  Security of Electronically Stored  Information

Issue

As legally and commercially significant information is transferred and
stored electronically, the implications of this on long-term (10's of
years) secure storage and retrieval must be properly understood.

Discussion

Industry is moving increasingly towards electronic trading in all its
aspects. Governments are encouraging the use of electronic
communication of commercially and legally significant information. As a
result, there is a need both to establish irrefutably the origin of,
and the delivery of, such information and, particularly, that the
information has been signed and stored in an unforgeable way. This
unforgeable electronic signature must be trusted for at least 10's of
years for some information, and the associated information must be
retained in a secure manner that is capable of human interpretation at
any time during that period. Any system proposed for electronic
signature storage must be as secure and robust as that currently used
for hand-written signatures.

Any such system must allow for not just technical evolution, but also
social change and other factors (eg the continued existence of trusted
public key directory centres, or the way businesses merge, change or
collapse).It is not currently clear that the way this can be achieved
is yet accepted legally, or the full implications are even properly
understood

Requirements

•       Common approach to the security of electronically stored
information

•       unforgeable secure storage.

4.3.    Requirements for the Safety of Communication Systems

Issue

Safety requirements for communication systems must be expressed in ways
that capture users expectations, reflect the engineering viewpoints of
vendors and service providers and are appropriate for regulators.

Safety requirements have to be integrated with other types of
requirement, eg reliability and security.

Discussion

End user requirements for safety of products or services are often
implicit or stated in very "soft" terms or in terms that assume
regulation and certification is looking after their needs. These user
requirements can be contrasted with the engineering specifications
needed by vendors and service providers to build systems and provide
for their assurance.

In addition safety is just one attribute and has to integrated with all
the other types of requirements and potential conflicts identified and
resolved. For example, the requirement for visibility of evidence for
safety assurance may conflict with security considerations, the need to
make access impossible for security reasons may conflict with the need
for emergency procedures. (eg evacuation). However users main concerns
are ones of cost and choice and these have to be addressed in the
dialogue between service providers, vendors and regulators.

In the safety field the notion of the tolerability of risk and the use
of both qualitative and quantitative risk assessments provides a lingua
franca between regulators and service providers as well as in a
modified form for users and those with professional interests. This
discussion needs to be broadened and integrated with security
requirements particularly for domains (eg medical informatics) where
open, heterogeneous computer systems have significant IT security and
safety components.

In addition to the risks from products or services that the user is
willingly engaging in or purchasing there are the risks from indirect
accidents (eg major chemical or nuclear accident) and normally in
discussions of policies towards the acceptability of risk a distinction
is made between these two types of risk with the requirements for
indirect risk being more onerous than those entered into voluntary.
Again, there is the need to integrate the discussion of these risks
with those from security breaches.

Requirements

•       Platform for a dialogue on risk including users, regulators,
vendors and service providers

•       policy on risk management on a societal level based on
objective risk assessment methods

•       techniques that permit an integrated approach to the different
types of risk (safety, security, commercial, direct, indirect).

4.4.    Requirements for Evaluations





4.4.1.  Trustworthiness of Communication ;Solutions

Issue

Establishment of trust in components, products, systems, services and
applications .

Discussion

The trustworthiness of a given communication solution and its use imply
that the system owners and especially the users need confidence in its
security and safety. They also need to be able to compare different
solutions with regard to the security and safety capabilities, cost,
functionality, performance, availability and reliability.

The diagram below shows schematically the major roles of the actors
involved.  The end-user normally runs an application, eg a particular
banking application. The application is provided by the application
provider, who, in turn, may use various services, offered by service
providers, eg communication services.

To run and provide applications and services, systems are required,
supplied by, normally, several system suppliers. System suppliers
purchase components and products from sub-suppliers.





In the end, the trustworthiness of the application must be
established.  This overall trustworthiness is a function of the
trustworthiness of the application provider, the service providers, and
the systems, products and components.

Depending on the needs of the user, vendor declarations,; self
evaluations; or formal evaluations; may be required at the various
stages. The choice of either of these mechanisms will depend on the
costs and delays involved in formal certification processes, the level
of assurance required and national constraints.

Another major factor is the recognition of certificates in other
markets and their utility, eg in protecting the user or vendor against
liability claims, where it is possible to do so.

The qualifications, experience and motivation of project managers,
evaluators, certifiers, accreditors and system administration staff
also affect the resultant level of trust achievable in the operational
system.

Users continually need to upgrade their hardware platforms and change
or add to software systems to remain commercially competitive and to
follow trends, etc. Thus the ease with which systems and products can
be re-evaluated or the portability of evaluation results are important
issues when deciding on the needs of the user. For example, portability
of products and systems across different hardware platforms. For how
long will a vendor support the evaluated hardware and software
configuration? Will a vendor re-evaluate all upgrades of their product
in a timely manner?

Requirements

•       International agreement on criteria and evaluation methods, and
mutual recognition of test results

•       clarification of the commercial value of “certified products”,
eg in terms of liability limitation

•       clarification of the status and implied liability of vendor
declarations

•       international agreement on the methods for evaluating security
and safety critical system development processes, and the
qualifications and experience needed for individuals that are involved
in these processes.

4.4.2.  Motivation to Acquire Evaluated Solutions

Issue

The advantage of the use of evaluated/certified solutions is not
generally accepted for commercial applications.

Discussion

Formal security evaluations have been carried out at a national level
by a comprehensive, costly and time consuming process. The investment
in the evaluation process by the vendor has resulted in higher prices
for the resulting secure IT product. The duration of the evaluation
process, has resulted in many secure products falling behind the
technical state of the art.

Up to now, this has often detracted from their broader relevance in the
commercial market. Users have often preferred lower cost, more
functionality rich products unless forced to purchase evaluated and
certified products through some public procurement policy.

Vendors, historically, had products evaluated separately by each
national market and their supporting criteria. The resulting limited
revenue opportunity did not justify the high cost of getting products
evaluated.

It is necessary to change this view by convincing users of the
advantages of purchasing evaluated/certified solutions. Rapid adoption
of Common evaluation and certification criteria is essential to reduce
cost and speed-up mutual recognition of the resulting certificates.

Requirements

•       Rapid adoption of Common Criteria

•       agreement on common evaluation method

•       portability of test results and mutual recognition

•       work sharing between vendors, test centres and users to speed
up the evaluation process

•       establishment of the “value-added” for the use by
administrations and business, eg in terms of liability protection and
in relation to insurance costs

4.4.3.  Consistency of Procurement Practices

Issue

National procurement guidelines for the purchase of
evaluated/non-evaluated products are not consistent throughout the EC,
nor is there a general agreement on when there is an obligation to use
evaluated products, and when it is recommended but discretional.

Discussion

Some security evaluated IT and communications products are purchased as
a result of a risk analysis where it is determined that the evaluated
communications product better suits the organisation's security needs
than a non-evaluated product.

However, a survey conducted of over 200 organisations indicated that,
to a large extent, evaluated products are purchased today by
organisations in the EC because of the expectation they will be
required by law to use certified products. This type of legislated
market is occurring especially in those Member States that were
involved in the development of ITSEC.

Unless the procurement policies in the EC are harmonised, the public
sector use of IT products will become a patchwork of evaluated and
unevaluated products. This may create new barriers to the efficient
flow of information.

Ways should be found to assist those member states not involved in the
early stages of ITSEC to develop and test procurement policies that are
based on evaluated communications products.

Requirements

•       Identification of categories of applications requiring
evaluated solutions

•       alignment of national procurement policies concerning evaluated
products

•       development of guidelines on applicability of evaluation
levels.

4.5.    Requirements for Security and Safety Methodologies







4.5.1.  Risk Analysis and Management

Issue

A number of Risk Analysis and Management methods are available within
the market place.  However, potential purchasers have no recognised
method to establish which method is the most effective for their
purposes.

Discussion

It is a fundamental requirement that such enterprise should manage the
security of its Information Systems (IS).  The strategy to manage
information security must be based on, and compatible with, overall
Corporate Security Policy, which , in turn, must reflect and support
the key business objectives of the enterprise.  However, in addition,
any security implemented must be commensurate with the levels of risks
to which the enterprise is subject, so as to ensure that adequate, but
not excessive, investment is made to protect corporate assets.

The Information Security Strategy will help to ensure the most
effective use of resources, and will, where appropriate, ensure a
consistent approach to security across a range of different systems.
How the Information Security Strategy is to be implemented should be
described in detail in a Corporate Information Security Policy.
Strategic objectives should be produced.  These are general security
objectives which may be defined, for instance, in terms of the levels
of confidentiality, integrity and availability that the enterprise
wishes to attain.  The application of baseline security standards has a
place within an Information Security Strategy, but not as a substitute
for Risk Analysis and Management.

The implementation of the Corporate Information Security Policy is thus
based upon the process of Risk Analysis and Management: that is the
assessment of the levels of risks to which corporate assets are subject
and the implementation of appropriate security safeguards.  Risk
Analysis and Management is therefore the key process for the effective
protection of information security.

Risk Analysis and Management is relevant to, and should be applied
over, the complete life cycle of each information security.  It can be
applied at differing degrees of detail and rigor depending on the size
of the organisation and the complexity of information security.

To enable successful Risk Analysis and Management requires a set of
security methods, tools, evaluation criteria, and, of course, products,
standards and guidelines.

There are a number of Risk Analysis and Management methods, supported
by appropriate tools, available in the market place and some
organisations will have developed their own in-house methods.
Enterprises need a means by which they can establish which method is
the most effective for their purposes.  It is appropriate that such a
means is agreed, implemented and fully supported within the EC.

As a result of previous CEC sponsored projects, Risk Analysis and
Management models have been developed an encompassed in the supporting
"Claims Structure".  This "Claims Structure" will allow the evaluation
of Risk Analysis and Management methods to be achieved.  Currently it
is being actively considered by the ISO SC27 Working Group 1 for
inclusion in international standards.  This is a good example where
European expertise, backed and supported by the CEC, is influencing the
establishment of International Standards.

Related to these issues are:

•       the proposed standards for security incident reporting;
schemes, the output from which can improve Risk Analysis and Management
reviews;

•       the availability of methods and tools for contingency
planning/disaster recovery, which need to be aligned to the "Claims
Structure" and Risk Analysis and Management methods;

•       evaluation criteria within ITSEC, the Federal Criteria (Draft
criteria produced by NIST in the US) and a EC/US Government Editorial
Board to produce a "Common Information Technology Security Criteria".

Requirements

•       Consideration of the "Claims Structure" as a standard mechanism
for specification of requirements, evaluation  and the selection of
Risk Analysis and Management methods

•       evaluation of the "Claims Structure" for applicability in the
safety domain

•       support for the "Claims Structure" as an international standard

•       further evaluation of methods using the "Claims Structure"

•       accreditation of organisations to conduct Risk Analysis and
Management method evaluations.

4.5.2.  Metrics for Loss Assessment

Issues

There is a fundamental need for guidance of any kind on how to assess
the loss and damages an organisation might face and how much of this
might be addressed by evaluation and certification. Such metrics would
increase the perception of the value of a formal evaluation scheme.

Discussion

Action is necessary to ensure the effective international exploitation
of the security product evaluation and certification scheme. There must
be a competitive business advantage of developing, implementing and
using certified security products, and there must be a well understood
correlation between a certified security product and the problems that
it can solve.

Progress is hindered by lack of independent measures of the business
relevance of the certified product.

Measures can be obtained by:

•       vendor/user studies (from actual risk assessment)

•       product comparisons (using loss reduction models)

•       insurance contracts (both direct and consequential damage
assessment)

•       vendor cost/benefit profiles (market penetration, Software
engineering costs, etc.).

Such studies would prove invaluable to the SMEs who cannot justify
extensive Security controls yet are probably the most vulnerable to the
consequences of information abuse.

The ITSEC actions should reflect a balance between the product based
concepts of security objectives (codes of good practice) and
quantitative risk/loss assessment.

This should result in measured, affordable controls as a prerequisite
to developing a European and international security market.

Requirements.

•       Mapping of certified product features to specific security
incidents

•       common, product independent risk analysis processes.

4.5.3.  Technology Assessment

Issue

The solution of many IT security issues requires anticipation of
complex future scenarios.  Technology Assessment (TA) provides a
framework in which the use of new and future technology can be
investigated to provide security safeguards for a particular
application under consideration.

Discussion

When considering new applications, especially those that are likely to
have a substantial life cycle, new or developing technology may be of
use in providing effective security safeguards.

Technology Assessment is designed to involve relevant factors from
different areas and to consider all pertinent perspectives (technical,
economical, psychological, political, etc.).  Technology Assessment
aims at preparing options for political action based on the results of
a multidisciplinary approach.  Technology Assessment is well
established in the US.  There is a pilot Technology Assessment project
in the field of IT security in Germany funded by BSI.

Requirements

•       Identification of the information security issues may be solved
within the Technology Assessment process

•       Technology Assessment pilot in Europe in the field of
information security to assess the consequences for future information
security applications and provide options for political and legal
actions.

4.5.4.  Analysis of Audit Trails

Issue

The lack of efficient tools and associated framework prevents the
efficient management and analysis of audit trails.

Discussion

The analysis of audit trails is the last recourse solution to
facilitate detection of misuse of information systems. However several
drawbacks prevent their efficient analysis in large and distributed
information systems:

•       Even though the nature of audit information is often
well-defined by existing security standards, there are no standards for
the storage and distribution of such information.

•       The hierarchical ordering and merging of information coming
from numerous security services of various nature and location is not
possible, thus preventing an efficient synthetic analysis thereof.

•       The enormous volume of audit information requires specialised
analysis tools. Existing tools are often based on statistical or
relational search techniques. They usually leave the Security Officer
with fastidious and boring scrutinising tasks and often significant
combinations of events remain unnoticed. Artificial Intelligence (AI)
based techniques could be of help in this domain. Of course, such tools
cannot provide absolute and exhaustive scrutiny.

The acquisition and exploitation of audit information may infringe on
the right to privacy of individuals, eg in teleworking systems where
such information could be exploited to oversee workers' performance on
the job. Similarly, the analysis of credit card payment records
provides insight on holder's private habits, even though it is
necessary to detect security-critical behaviour.  These concerns may
warrant the recourse to TTP services to prevent abusive analysis of
audit trails. These services fall in the same domain as presented in
paragraph 6.1.7.

Requirements

•       Rules and regulations for the design, handling and exploitation
of audit trail information, in conformance with privacy laws and
practices

•       prevention of audit data base compromise (eg techniques of
separation of information)

•       services for the independent acquisition, management, and/or
analysis of audit trails

•       development of innovative technologies (AI-based) for the
exploitation of large audit trails.

4.5.5.  Safety Specific Methodologies

Issues

To establish the processes, techniques and methodologies for achieving
safety.

Discussion

Despite the large resource devoted to research and development in
software and systems engineering there is still little data on the
effectiveness and costs of different methods and techniques for
building dependable systems. The best consensus that can be achieved is
reflected din emerging generic international safety standards which
either decline to provide guidance or do so in very vague terms. There
is a need to define what software engineering processes should be put
in place to build systems, how these should be applied and how the
results from them can be demonstrated to meet the requirements.

There is also a need to establish variation of requirements throughout
the system lifecycle and to understand the role of process maturity and
models and its interaction with technologies for development. The
tendency in safety (and other) applications to require a  bureaucratic
documentation based process needs evaluation and the cost/benefits
established. The relative importance of process based approaches, the
competency of those involved and analytical techniques need to be
addressed.

Safety is of course just one aspect of dependability and many of the
problems in achieving safety are general problems. In order to
facilitate the exploitation of generic work on dependable systems and
to focus this work on the needs of safe and secure systems there is a
need to understand in what ways the engineering of safety systems are
different. For example, we need to understand how safety analysis
techniques (Hazops, fault tree analysis etc.) fit into requirements
capture, the need for special fail-safe architectures and design, the
special requirements for hardware fault detection, tolerance and
management.

The approaches to achieving safety should also recognise not just the
software issue but also the problems of  designing trusted hardware and
the increasing blurring between hardware engineering and software
arising from the use programmable ROMs.

Requirements

•       Software engineering processes and techniques for safety
applications including their application and evaluation

•       understand the special needs for engineering safe systems.

4.6.    Requirements for Audits

Issue

Identification of security and control weaknesses and the
identification of corrective actions.

Discussion

Audit and auditability are becoming increasingly important and should
be an independent part of an organisations approach to security
administration, or brought in on a contract basis.  The purpose of an
audit function is to identify security and control weaknesses and/or
failures in enterprises so that corrective action can be recommended to
management.  An independent audit review ensures that all authorities
are not focused under the same management.

It is necessary to confirm compliance with standards, check system
records and activity, and to ensure that organisation policies are
being carried out.

Management is responsible for reviewing audit reports and taking
corrective action where necessary.

An increasingly important area of information security auditing
activity is the involvement of auditors (internal or external) at the
initial stages of system development, both to ensure that adequate
controls are built in to the system and also to assess whether the
development process itself is adequately controlled.  This applies not
only to in-house developments, but also third-party developers where
bespoke work is being undertaken.  The latter situation may need a
legal or contractual requirement for audit access to the development
staff and environment.  Such a requirement (to audit development stages
and methods) should be included in public codes of practice and
relevant professional standards.

Requirements

•       Guidelines for audit review of information security activities

•       audit tools to enable reviews of security implementations and
identify weaknesses (eg using artificial intelligence)

•       guidelines on reviewing any or all security changes

•       suitable and consistent level of competence for security
auditors and organisations to be accepted throughout the Community

•       greater commonality of formats for audit trails, so that they
can be used between systems.

•       mechanisms to enable qualified auditors to be involved in
system development.

4.7.    Information Valuation of information

Issue:

A recognised and common means is required to value information for a
range of information security purposes, including insurance, tort law
cases, risk analysis and management.

Discussion:

Within the information security arena Information Valuation is required
for a number of purposes.  These include:

•       insurance purposes, where, essentially, a financial cost is
required for an insurable asset against an insurable event;

•       tort law cases, where again a financial cost is required to
assess corporate or individual loss, and therefore compensation, for a
failure or action involving the provision of or use of information
security;

•       risk analysis and management activities, in which Information
requires to be valued not only on a financially quantifiable basis but
also on non-financial impacts, such as failure to meet legal
responsibilities and obligations, personal safety, corporate
embarrassment; infringement of personal privacy, etc.  Some Risk
Analysis and Management methods do this already, but not in any
standard form.

In addition should Green Book information security activities be
extended to cover safety critical systems, further valuations
associated with loss of life or injury will become relevant.

To value the cost of re inputting lost information is relatively easy.
However, to value the impact of, for instance, the disclosure of highly
confidential information which causes the resignation of the Managing
Director is less straightforward.

Thus there is a need for a common approach that will allow information
to be valued in a way that will allow relative comparisons between
financial loss and non-financial impacts, through unavailability of
information, unauthorised disclosure of information or unauthorised
modification of information or software.

Requirements

•       Development of common practices for information valuation

•       assessment of current methods for information valuation

•       definition of the rights and duties of information ownership

•       development of guidance for owners of information to avoid
negligence charges with regard to the protection of their assets.



5.      Supply Related Issues







5.1.    Supply Related Issues; - Ways to Meet the Security Demands
Issues (related to supply)





5.1.1.  Security Services

Issue

Agreement on the provision of particular security services is needed to
meet the needs of business, administrations and the individual.

Security services are offered mainly to prevent disputes, or resolve
them in a way that is structured, efficient, accepted by all parties
involved and non-controversial.

Discussion

Prevention of disputes arises essentially from the very ability of
security services to assign responsibility and fault, should one
occur.

•       Thus, security services must essentially be able to verify the
application or non-application of rules and the evidence pertaining to
them.

•       Security services may or may not generate the evidence itself.
In other words the question is whether a third party offering a trusted
service also arbitrates litigations pertaining to its principal
service. For example, does a signature generation service also provides
signature-verification services ?

Two issues arise in this topic :

•       What is the legal status of evidence generated by security
services ? Does it imply liability ? What is the legal status of
decisions made par security service providers when they are not
judicial but private (and corollary, what are the rules of appeal) ?

•       If evidence is not generated by the arbiter, how is the
evidence acquired and authenticated and how is responsibility
assigned ? One is faced with the general problems of TTPs : operating
rules and legislation, standardisation, inter-operability and
accreditation.

Possible solutions to the following service categories have been
identified:

Non-Repudiation Services

These can be achieved through straightforward application of the
digital signature mechanism.

In an open environment, this would imply the use of public key
techniques. Each entity (user) possesses a public key pair, consisting
of a public key P, which can be made known to everybody, and a matching
secret key, S. The secret key is used to create a digital signature on
a message, and the corresponding public key is used to verify the
digital signature as been created by means of the secret key. If the
public key scheme is an encryption scheme, like RSA, the public key may
alternatively be used by anybody to encrypt a confidential message to
the owner of the secret key, as this is the only key which can recover
the original message.

Claim of Origin

It is possible to prove that claim of origin can only be achieved by
using a trusted center, where the electronic documents are registered
or authenticated. The point is that in order to establish the origin,
we need a digital signature. Of course, anybody can apply his own
digital signature to the document, but this will not imply proprietary.
Hence the only solution is some kind of registration or notary service.
In particular, cryptographic techniques have nothing useful to offer in
any other way than to apply nonrepudiation services to prove that a
document was registered, or by using encryption to protect the content
of a document. When such as center has been established, it will be
trivial to integrate security.

Claim of Ownership ; in electronic negotiable documents

By the use of digital signatures and TTPs electronic negotiable
documents can be provided in different ways. Three schemes are
presented here.

1.      Negotiable documents; can be stored by a TTP in that the TTP
at any time on request can provide a copy of the document and the name
of the document owner. The TTP guarantees that the document is
unaltered and that the correct owner is registered. Document
transaction is performed on request from the document owner, which
could even be authenticated by a digital signature, which also secure
against repudiation.

	In this scheme the users have to have unconditional trust in
	the TTP. If the TTP is corrupted it might alter the documents
	or the owners identity. Several systems exist today that use
	this approach.

2.      If digital signatures; are used in the scheme presented in
(1) in that the negotiable documents and the "sales contract" proving
document transaction are digitally signed, the TTP has only to be
trusted to keep the documents securely stored. The owner of a document
can be identified by anyone by verifying the signatures of the document
and all the "sales contracts" (the identity given in the last "sales
contract" in the chain will be the document owner).

	In this scheme only functional trust in the TTP to keep the
	digitally signed documents and "sales contracts" securely
	stored and presented in copy to anyone (or at least to
	potential document buyers) upon request.

3.      By the use of chipcards; the negotiable documents can be
securely stored and protected against copying or multiple selling by an
owner.

	The only other way to provide uniqueness is to physically
	prohibit free copying. This would involve tamper resistance to
	realise a protected communication with restricted
	functionality. A message encrypted under a key known to only
	one entity (eg, the entity's public key) is unique, as long as
	it is encrypted, and establishes indisputable ownership by the
	mere fact that it will only be useful to the owner of the key.
	Only the person in possession of the right key can make any use
	of the document, which in effect is the property of
	uniqueness.

	A negotiable document is transferred from one chipcard to
	another, through a public network, in such a way that

a)      It can only be transferred to one particular chipcard only.

b)      Recovery is possible, if the transfer is unsuccessful

c)      the protocol cannot be simulated by any other device than an
authorised chipcard.

	This solution would require a functionally trusted CA to
	register the chipcards by their public key.

Also for non-negotiable documents a limit to proliferation may be
useful. Consider eg contracts. Generally each party to a written
contract holds one original document which cannot be proliferated. When
the contract is superseded by a new version, the old version can be
located and devalidated. This cannot be paralleled with the usual
electronic means. Unless the number of original electronic documents
can be limited, devalidation is of little use.

The Document originality can be provided by the use of chipcards. A
chipcard can store a secret and protect it. The secret is essential to
authenticate the signature of the document. As the chipcard cannot be
explored, the secret cannot be transacted into another chipcard. Thus
it is practically impossible to duplicate the original chipcard. Such a
chipcard can be made a substitute of the negotiable paper document.

In order to produce and to transact chipcard documents via
telecommunication trusted equipment is needed. It Should be operated by
trusted third parties, eg by public notaries. They may be bestowed with
the responsibility to produce chipcard documents and to transact and
receive them by means of their trusted equipment. Transaction may be
performed by depleting the original chipcard at the sending end,
securely transmitting its information and feeding it into another
chipcard at the receiving end. This process must be protected for its
integrity and confidentiality. Not even the "public notary" must be in
a position to alter the information.

Beside issuing negotiable documents there are other ways of securing
correct title to property. Instead of a person proving his claim by the
presence of a token, the claim may be addressed to a distinct person
who then is expected to prove his identity.

This - continuing with the above example - is the case with the freight
bill, which is another way to deliver a cargo to the authentic
receiver. However, the freight bill cannot be traded as effectively as
the bill of lading, although, by omission of additional chipcards and
other trusted equipment, it makes it easier to design the electronic
substitute process.

One should expect that, unless proper electronic documents will be
available, the use of paper for negotiable documents will be continued
at the expense of effectiveness and more paper.

Fair Exchange of Values

It is possible to exchange electronic documents of value, such as
unique documents or commitments with digital signatures in an
interactive protocol, which will not allow any participating party to
cheat. The framework for this could be the forthcoming UN/EDIFACT
recommendation for Interactive EDI, which is sufficiently flexible to
integrate the communication required for fair exchange of values.

Untraceability

Methods have been developed in cryptography, which would allow the
implementation of central data base systems, based on individuals in
say the EEC, which at the same time would provide complete anonymity to
the individual, yet be open to extract any reasonable statistical
information. The impact would be quite important. It would be possible
at the same time to have all data available for statistical evidence,
say for AIDS infected persons, who volunteer to register, yet guarantee
the protection of the individual, not based on unconditional trust, but
on logical protection, which can only be penetrated if some of the
hardest known mathematical problems can be solved.

Time-Stamping

The third party must be trusted by both parties, or at least the
dispute resolution mechanism, for the correctness of the date and time
supplied, but also for the confidentiality with which they handle the
contents of the correspondence.

Requirements

•       Harmonisation of legislation on the legal status of evidence
generated by any TTP and especially on the intra- and extra- community
recognition thereof

•       litigation services based on existing international bodies such
as the International Chamber of Commerce

•       techniques for the establishment, handling and recording of
electronic negotiable documents

•       date and time stamping for time-critical transactions and
applications, including a range of granularities of timing

•       international harmonisation of rules and services for time
stamping, with the objective of achieving general recognition and
acceptance of time stamps and their provision by suitably accredited
service providers.

5.1.2.  Signature Schemes

Issue

Introduction of an international digital signature and identification
schemes.

Discussion

Open communication requires standardised publicly available algorithms.
It is possible, however, to develop a scheme for digital signatures, to
get laws, regulations or directives in place, to develop supporting
profile standards and to develop fully implementable models for TTPs,
without specifying in detail the underlying algorithms.

The characteristics required of a digital signature mechanism include
that it

 •      is practically unbreakable

•       has a sufficiently large key space, performance (time and space
requirements for signing and verification), reasonable size of key,
etc.

•       includes key generation.

In order to allow for world-wide, unrestricted use of a digital
signature scheme, the mechanism should not be usable for the
concealment of message content.

The minimum requirement should include

•       an estimate of error probability if probabilistic methods are
used

•       an estimate of probability of occurrence of weak keys (perhaps
completely improbable)

•       a guarantee of sufficiently high degree of uniform
distribution.

In so-called identification schemes (for access control), which do
require public key techniques rather than conventional schemes,
practical zero-knowledge protocols must be developed and standardised
that fit a corresponding digital signature standard.

Requirements

•       Specifications and standards for an international signature
scheme

•       specifications and standards for the integration of the
signature schemes into practical applications

•       general application programming interface (API) for the
integration of signature schemes into applications . This should
include codes which explain the purpose of the applied signature

•       development of transaction-oriented multiple signature schemes

•       licensing of cryptographic algorithms.

5.1.3.  Confidentiality Schemes

Issue

Agreements on the confidentiality schemes to be used, taking into
account the needs of individuals, business, administrations and the
duties of law enforcement.

Discussion

Confidentiality of message contents can be achieved in many different
ways and, historically, many ingenious methods have been proposed and
applied.

Different requirements exist because of different levels of sensitivity
and of different media, eg for data, audio and video communications.

Symmetric encryption;, where the sender and the receiver share a
common key, is the classically preferred method, because of the speed
that can be achieved. The common key must be exchanged via a secure
channel before communication can take place. Examples of widely used
symmetric mechanisms are the Data Encryption Standard (DES); and the
proprietary mechanisms used in mobile communications.

Asymmetric encryption; methods, where the sender and receiver use
different, but related, keys are simpler to use, because key exchange
via a secure channel is not required.  These methods are also called
“public key cryptology”, because the encryption key can be made public.
However, it is not possible to use asymmetric encryption in high speed
applications (the fastest hardware implementations work in the area of
several tenth of kilobytes per second).  An example of an asymmetric
mechanism is Rivest, Shamir, Adleman (RSA);.

For practical applications, a combination of symmetric and asymmetric
methods is often used.  In these cases, the (session) key is exchanged
via an asymmetric mechanism and the actual data to be protected is
encrypted at high speed with a symmetric algorithm. Other key exchange
schemes are also possible, eg the Diffie-Hellman method, where each
partner in a (two-way) communication contributes part of the session
key.

The confidentiality level; that can be achieved depends on many
factors.  Besides the quality of the algorithm itself, these factors
include its mode of operation, the key length and the key generation
method.

Key management; is an important factor in confidential
communications.  In asymmetric encryption, in addition to key pairs
being generated, the public key is certified and included in a
directory.

For confidential communications to take place, the sender and the
receivers require agreement on the method and protocol used.  If
confidential communication between different domains using different
methods is required, security gateways may perform the necessary
translations.  These gateways must be trusted.

Although not required for normal business use, it is possible today to
produce hardware and even software solutions that produce practically
unbreakable cryptograms.  This fact potentially represents a threat to
public order and may hinder law enforcement in their duties.

Requirements

•       Consensus on the principles of confidentiality services for use
by individuals, enterprises and administrations

•       trustworthy confidentiality scheme and its supporting
administration.

5.2.    Supply Related Issues - Security Management





5.2.1.  Role of Trusted Third Parties (TTPs)

Issue

Some of the security services necessarily require involvement of a
third party. Any such party is trusted in some way. These trusted third
parties (TTP) can also be involved in the provision of administrative
services. This may satisfy business as well as law enforcement needs.

Discussion

When a group of users wants to communicate securely using cryptographic
methods, some measures must be taken to distribute and update the keys
that are needed. Typically, each user must obtain a key coming from
every other user he wants to communicate with, no matter which service
is required. For a small, constant user group, this may be a fairly
straightforward problem, which can be solved without involving any
other parties than the users themselves. For larger and more open user
groups, the problem quickly becomes difficult, however, and one needs
to involve a so called Trusted Third Party (TTP).

Although several variants exist, there is a main distinction usually
made between two types of TTPs: functionally Trusted Third Parties and
unconditionally Trusted Third Parties.

The first type arises from the obvious need for reliable registration
of users of the system. If public key methods are used, this will
usually include certification of public keys as belonging to certain
users. A TTP trusted to perform this function is called functionally
trusted. It is clear that if the registration is not done in a reliable
manner, users cannot even be sure with whom they are communicating. So
functional trust represents a minimal amount of trust that must be
placed in a TTP. Note that this type of TTP does not need to know the
secret key of any user, nor does in need to know any conventional keys
used for data communication between users. The functionality required
in this instance is comparable to the functionality of a phone book. It
provides a reliable connection between people, or their residence,
rather, and their phone numbers.

The second type of TTP is typically needed in systems that use
conventional cryptography only. In addition to the registration
function mentioned above, such an unconditionally trusted TTP will
generate keys for data communication and then communicate them securely
to the users who need them. This means that the TTP knows and in
principle could make use of all the secret information in the system.
Thus measures must be taken to prevent such misuse. This usually
involves the use of tamper resistant hardware, ensuring that no key
will appear in the clear outside of the trusted environment.

In any case, whichever approach is chosen, Trusted Third Parties must
be introduced to handle a number of administrative functions related to
the management of users, in particular registration, and the
distribution of all relevant information on keys. However, a number of
other functions, such as time stamping, are relevant, and all these
requirements must be clearly understood to reach the objective of the
project.

One single TTP world-wide is clearly impractical. So there will be one
or more networks of TTPs. Some network may only support closed user
groups. International networks for an open environment need some
framework.

Trusted Third Party services can be considered as value-added
communication services available to users wishing to enhance the trust
of the services he uses. Therefore TTPs have to be able to offer value
added with regard to availability, integrity, confidentiality and
assurance. Although TTPs may be set up on a national basis within
national law, they must be trusted internationally.

There are different types of functions which may all or in part be
fulfilled by TTPs. The exact nature and extend to which these functions
are provided by TTPs will be dictated by practical considerations and
may vary considerably.

In general the TTPs operate on the basis of information provided by the
user. Certification of information is carried out on the basis of
evidence of correctness provided by the user or generated by the TTP
itself, eg the keys.

The major services a TTP may offer include some or all of the
following:

•       Name assignment;, ie the function of assigning individuals’
and enterprises’ unique names and addresses. Individuals may possess
several different distinguished names, according to their role, eg as
private citizen and as employee of a corporation.

•       Certification;, ie the function to validate that a name and
address has certain credentials, eg a public key for signature.

•       Key Management; for signature, ie the generation,
distribution, establishment, and administration of public and private
keys.

•       Key Management for confidentiality, ie the function to
generate, distribute and administer keys used for confidential
communications.

•       Management Services for Names and Credentials;, ie the
function to establish, administer and make available registers with the
names of individuals and their certified credentials.

•       Security services, ie functions usually performed by the legal
profession, mostly concerned with non-repudiation. These include:

-       non-repudiation services

-       Claim of origin

-       Claim of ownership

-       Fair exchange of values

-       Untraceability

-       Time stamping.

Common to Trusted Third Party service providers is that they have to be
accredited and audited, and that they have to operate under the law of
the country using common guidelines. The figure below provides an
analysis of the different functions involved in the establishment and
operation of TTPs.



The diagram identifies four functions in this process. The functions
are:

•       the provision of the required good practices, rules and
regulations for the accreditation and operation of TTPs

•       the accreditation, re-accreditation and audit of TTPs

•       the TTP functions themselves

•       the use of communications and of the TTP.

This diagram does not imply any particular allocation of responsibility
for the functions indicated.

The information flow contains the following major elements:

•       National Laws. The operation of TTPs will take place within the
laws of the country in which they are located. It is conceivable that
some legislation has to be updated to allow TTPs to operate in an
international environment.

•       Good practices, rules and regulations for the accreditation,
operation and audit of TTPs.

•       Standards for communications.

•       Good practices, regulations and laws for the use of
communication services.

Requirements

•       Establishment of international framework for the operation of
TTPs

•       Setting up of conditions for the operation of TTPs in the EC
adapted to the needs of national and international users.

5.2.2.  Key Usage

Issue

Digital signatures imply the specification of a full set of procedures
dealing with the three phases of key management - user enrolment, key
and certification distribution, and operational maintenance
(revocation, blacklist, destruction), which must be agreed and
accepted.

Discussion

To apply security to any message or process, four logical layers are
relevant:

•       Legal intentions and implications (including social
requirements)

•       The definition and identification of the relevant security
service to be applied.

•       The underlying mechanisms.

•       The algorithm and protocols.

Without standardising or agreeing on the 4th layer, it will not be
possible to communicate.

In order to adopt electronic versions of negotiable and
quasi-negotiable documents, such as bills of lading, new security
services have been identified to meet business requirements, in
particular claim of ownership for exchange of values. This needs to go
through a standardisation process.

But also for more " classical" services, the current standards do not
reflect the granularity of eg non-repudiation needed by business
requirements. ISO 7498-2 only addresses non-repudiation of origin and
delivery (sometimes called receipt). However, one needs at least
origin, submission, delivery and receipt, where submission and delivery
would correspond to the services required when a registered letter is
mailed.

For hand-written signatures , a person typically knows what he is
signing, which is important for legal implications. This is not so easy
to achieve with electronic data. In particular it must be clarified to
what extent the system must indicate to the user what he is actually
signing.

Requirements

•       Standards and profiles in particular to support and improve
CCITT X.509.

5.2.3.  Key Management Service

Issue

Key management services for signed and privacy enhanced communications
between organisations and individuals.

Discussion

General

•       Definition of responsibilities and obligations for services
that provide trust in the integrity of communications and those that
provide confidentiality.

•       Development of codes of practice for the generation,
distribution and storage and destruction of keys for both purposes
(integrity and confidentiality) in environments that have varying
levels of assurance.

•       Definition of escrow services. Some of the secrets may be of
paramount importance and may have to be distributed among trusted
parties (distributed-secret-escrow agents) so that none of the parties
know the complete secret and not less than a defined minimum of those
trusted parties must contribute their part of the secret in order to
produce the complete secret.

•       Mechanisms and criteria for assessing applicants suitability
for the use of TTP services. Not all potential users of TTPs may have
the necessary attributes (eg legal status, financial viability, etc.).
This essentially applies to TTP services for closed user groups.

Integrity and digital signatures

•       Relationship between the key management functions, directory
management and certification needs to be clarified.

•       Timeliness of issuing signatures when an application is made -
verification of "signature worthiness" of applicant - periodic review
of "worthiness" of existing constituency of signature holders.

•       Removal of signatures from "active list" and initiation of
"attempted illegal use" audit. This is a "certificate management" -
"key management" interface management issue.

Privacy Enhancement

•       Management of the domain within which the confidentiality keys
are valid. The identity of authorised subjects within the domain: Key
distribution to those authorised subjects (people and automated
processes.).

•       Should the TTP define the domain as well as manage it: if not
should another TTP hold the definition (ie table of authorised
subjects).

•       Assessment of the assurance level of the domain within which
the confidentiality keys are to be used, ranging from vetted, cleared
people with physical and logical access controls to un-cleared people
in open environments.

Domains are an important concept in confidentiality provision. The
following questions require an answer:

1.      What is the scope of validity of a domain for certification and
the scope of validity for a confidentiality mechanism ? Who manages the
domains ? Who manages inter-domain issues ? Does each domain need a
different TTP ?

2.      Who determines the scope of a domain ? Who is authorised to
change it ? (for both certification and confidentiality.) Is a domain a
“contract”, and under which circumstances ?

3.      What are the assurance criteria for domain management ? Who
audits a domain manager ? Who maintains the principles of domain
management as technology changes ?

4.      Should domains for certification and confidentiality be
different in view of the fact that a confidentiality domain will be
transitory and that therefore key management principles are
different ?

5.      When should the use of escrow services be mandated to ensure
domain integrity.

Requirements

•       Single digital signature mechanism and specifications
preferably consistent with other leading countries

•       adoption of a confidentiality algorithm standard and
specification, and a key distribution mechanism based on an asymmetric
public key algorithm

•       establishment of "domain assurance" levels and criteria for
TTPs to use for confidentiality key management purposes

•       codes of practice for TTPs engaged in key management
activities, and the provision of escrow services; and the methods by
which those codes of practice would be audited

•       set of criteria for mutual recognition between TTPs acting on
behalf of organisations who wish to communicate securely. Merging of
signature directories and secure inter-domain communications are
fundamental issues.

5.2.4.  Distributed-Secret Escrow Systems; Escrow Systems

Issue

Some secrets (eg the secret key of a user) may be of paramount
importance and may have to be distributed among trusted parties (escrow
agents) so that none of the parties knows the complete secret and not
less than a defined minimum of those trusted parties must contribute
their part of the secret in order to produce the complete secret.

Discussion

Such schemes are intended to protect the secret against corruption or
destruction of the secret holder. Escrow agents are jointly more
trustworthy than any of its members.

Normally escrow agents, like information brokers, will use
communication services to provide added value services.

A US Presidential Initiative of April 16, 1993, announced a "key-escrow
system" Which is to protect both confidentiality of (basic) telephone
communication as well as the society's interests against misuse of
legal encryption for illegal purposes.

Telephone users are to hold trusted "Clipper Chips" which they can use
to encrypt their conversations. Each such device will have two unique
keys, numbers that will be needed by authorised government agencies to
decode messages encoded by the device. When the device is manufactured,
the two keys will be deposited separately in two "key-escrow" data
bases that will be established by the Attorney General. Access to these
keys will be limited to government officials with legal authorisation
to conduct a wire tap.

There are many possible ways of using distributed-secret escrow
systems. The system proposed in the US provides improved protection
against corruption of a single secret holder; however, it increases the
threat of destruction, because loss of either of the two key-escrow
data bases will render the system unavailable. This threat can be met
by distributing the secret over a larger number of escrows, so that a
subset can reproduce it (eg 2 out of 5).

In view of the international character of communications, the
consequences of the US Presidential Initiative and possible
improvements should be studied. The US development should be closely
observed and should be influenced towards a better compatibility with
European regulations.

Requirements

•       Investigation and configuration of an escrow systems adapted to
European needs.

5.2.5.  Management Services for Names ;and Management Services
for Credentials

Issues

Whenever parties engage in bi- or multi-lateral electronic
transactions, they need beforehand some non-transient information on
their partners (such as identity, legal representatives or any other
kind of credentials eg public keys). This does not imply permanent
recording of such information.

Discussion

Management Services for Names and Credentials are established to
facilitate access to this type of information, whereby service
subscribers are provided with up-to-date data pertaining to the parties
listed in there. Because partners may conclude the transactions on the
basis of the information (at the minimum, the authenticated identity of
their partners) they are provided with, and because some of the
information stored by such a service may be protected by privacy
legislation, the service itself must be trustworthy and the data it
provides correct.

Management Services for Names and Credentials keep objects which are
referred to by "Distinguished Names". A Distinguished Name is unique to
a communication subject. A subject may have a number of (unique in the
above sense) "Alias Names". It is required that the service can
reference Alias Names to their subject's natural names. An Alias Name
may be a pseudonym. Whether or not the service is allowed to reference
a pseudonym and let inquirer know the result will depend on the
subject's data privacy rights.

If, as is likely going to be the case, there is more than one provider
and certifier of information, the Management Services for Names and
Credentials must be part of a network of information suppliers. Network
can be organised according to either geographical distribution or
business sector or information taxonomy or all three of them. Users may
have to subscribe to more than one such service or service type (eg
"Public Key directory for the banking sector"). Users may have a number
of different roles in an enterprise, each of which needs access to a
set of different services. In the case of a multiple service and
network of providers, one can speak of a system of Management Services
for Names and Credentials.

Because of the damages that could be caused by the distribution of
false information, the Management Services for Names and Credentials
must apply due care in its operations. In the case of proven negligence
the service could be held liable if inaccurate information were
provided. The creation, update and destruction (eg in the case of
certificate revocation) of information is either mandatory or
forbidden. In critical cases (eg; certificate revocation), the update
may have to be notified to subscribers without request.

The management of the Management Services for Names and Credentials
must thus be accountable. There must be legislation, rules and
regulations governing it.

Obviously, the service must cover and be available on an international
level.

Obviously there is the issue of standardisation of the service at the
user end (external interface) and between service providers (internal
interface).

Since international Management Services for Names and Credentials are
akin to internationally distributed data bases, they face the same
legal questions: who is legally responsible for the information
(between the creator, the storer, the distributor) ?

Market pressures are bound to promote the advent of sectorial
Management Services for Names and Credentials, and possibly their
subsequent interconnection or integration into larger network. In order
to avoid fragmentation among proprietary services, there may be a need
to lay down base rules for naming, binding, certificates and the
associated IPR rules.

Requirements

•       Provision of Management Services for Names and Credentials, to
include identity, name information, and credentials such as public keys
or any signature-verification data

•       interoperability specifications and standards for names and
credentials

•       international harmonisation of legislation, rules and
regulations for Management Services for Names and Credentials.

5.2.6.  The  Management of TTPs; TTPs (management of)

5.2.6.1.        Operating Principles of TTPs; TTPs (operating
principles of)

Issue

The need for common operating principles for TTPs.

Discussion

To be effective, TTPs must :

•       operate within a consistent legal framework across the
Community

•       offer a range of services, with a defined minimum

•       conform to European or international standards, where available

•       follow accepted good practice

•       allow for independent arbitration, without compromising
security

•       be independent in its operation within accreditation rules

•       have a public policy on service refusals, if applicable

•       assume responsibility of liability within defined limits for
availability and quality of service.

The key questions include :

•       Has the TTP a contractual obligation of results in terms of
availability, integrity and confidentiality?

•       How and by whom are the loss and penalty determined in cases of
fraud, negligence or failure of the TTP?

•       What assurance to the final user is offered by the
accreditation of the TTP?

Requirements

•       Harmonised legislation to provide an appropriate framework for
arbitration, supervision and litigation

•       model for TTPs meeting the requirements of users and
authorities.

•       baseline for accepted good practice including a study of the
level of availability, privacy and security required for the TTP by the
final users and how much they are ready to pay for it

•       definition of quality of service, including availability,
confidentiality, response-time, rules of disclosure to law enforcement
agencies

•       operational guidelines, including descriptions of minimum set
of services and standards to conform to

•       standard clauses for the contract between the TTP and the user,
concerning the liability of the TTP.

5.2.6.2.        Interworking of TTPs; TTPs (interworking of)

Issue

Openness and protection.

Discussion

In practice, the level of information security is dynamically adapted
to a given situation. This leads to the concept of Dynamic IS
Management and the need to be able to define domains, in which
information security is applied homogeneously.

Security Domain Concept

Domains are user groupings sharing some of their functions and support.
For some activities they operate as virtually closed user groups, but
have the possibility to interwork with other domains as long as certain
minimum requirements ensure no loss of trust or a transparent
downgrading.

The notion of a security domain is therefore important for two reasons.
Namely,

•       It can be used to describe how security is managed and
administered, and

•       It can be used as a building block in modelling security
relevant activities that involve elements under distinct security
authorities.

Examples of domain activities are:

•       accesses to elements (eg a database for network management)

•       a communications link

•       operations relating to a specific management function

•       non-repudiation operations involving a notary.

Security Policy

The organisation of security within enterprises in terms of business
control structures or in the case of some user environment (eg legal,
accounting, audit etc.) and functions (eg IT, human resources,
insurance) needs to be supported by a set of security policies,
standards (both public and in-house), laws and regulations (eg computer
crime manual), guidelines and codes of practice etc.

The security policy defines what is meant by security within the
domain, the rules by which security may be obtained to the satisfaction
of the security authority, and the activities to which it applies. The
security policy may also define which rules apply in relations with
other security domains in general, and in relations with particular
other security domains.

The management of inter-domain openness and protection may be different
depending on similarities in purpose, and agreements will be needed to
achieve appropriate levels of assurance. Mechanisms by which TTPs
achieve efficient, coherent management of policies, procedures and
controls between domains need development.

Requirements

•       Guidelines for domain creation, management and control

•       common framework for domain interworking

•       agreement on management, TTPs, accreditation, auditing and
relations with law enforcement agencies.

5.2.6.3.        Interworking of Autonomous Confidentiality Services

Issue

Till such time that a universal service is being offered, interworking
between autonomous confidentiality services is likely to be the normal
situation because of the differentiated requirements. This implies the
need for generally accepted rules for the relationship between these
services.

Discussion

For quite a time the conflict between national security issues and the
business need for international communications has blocked significant
progress in the area of confidentiality services in telecommunications.
With the recent US initiatives, pressure from European companies will
grow to have access to equivalent services. But within Europe we have
the situation that neither the legal situation in the different EC
countries nor their national security policies are harmonised enough to
have a single confidentiality service scheme with a single algorithm
established within the foreseeable future. Therefore it is necessary to
have a framework, which enables user-transparent interoperability
between different national or regional schemes and which do not block
the way for a single scheme which may be established in the far future.
Interoperability is also required with non-European schemes like the
US. scheme. To provide this interoperability the way information is
passed from one national security domain to another has to be specified
and the national schemes have to be compatible with this specified way.
The establishment of such a framework for interoperability is therefore
a subject which needs international harmonisation. Aspects related to
this are requirements for the cryptographic algorithms and for key
management issues.

Requirements

•       Minimum requirements to ensure interoperability, including
standards, specifications, rules of procedure and operating practices

•       demonstration of trans-European confidentiality services using
a suitable application, eg the realisation of administrative telematics
applications.

5.2.6.4.        Accreditation of TTPs ;and Audit of TTPs; TTPs
(accreditation of, audit of)

Issue

The need for harmonised procedures for the accreditation and audit of
TTPs.

Discussion

Although the accreditation and audit of TTPs may be a local or national
responsibility, the procedures to be followed must be harmonised and
have a common basis in order to ensure mutual trust.

It is assumed that national governments will be responsible for
approving accrediting bodies. This may require to create new national
laws or to adapt existing laws.

From the TTP point of view, timely and fair responses to requests for
accreditation will be important.

From the user point of view, the agreed terms of the accreditation need
to be properly documented and inspectable.

To maintain public trust in TTPs, an audit process must be put in
place.

Other issues are related to the

•       requests for accreditation from service providers in other EC
and non-EC countries

•       certification of certificates

•       authority and accreditor signatures.

Existing Community rules for accreditation (eg of test centers) should
be used as a basis for this work.

Requirements

•       Development of international guidelines for the accreditation
and audit of TTPs

•       adaptation of applicable legislation or regulations to provide
an appropriate legal framework for use throughout the Community and in
the relations with third countries.

5.3.    Supply Related Issues - Evaluation of Trusted Solutions







5.3.1.  Evaluation of Products, Systems, Services and Applications

Issue

Need for evaluations in support of communication requirements in both
the public and private sectors.

Discussion

There is a whole spectrum of possible evaluation methods in use today.
These range from:

•       vendor declarations; without accepted liability (the most
common practice at the moment where the vendor's product information
states the intended functionality and quality of the product but no
liability is accepted if the product turns out not to be strong),

•       acceptance testing; by the purchaser (also common, where the
purchaser trials the product before committing to it),

•       indirect evaluation; (where a supplier has a product range
with a common product architecture, and the top-of-the-range product
has been put through a formal evaluation.  Though the other products in
the range have not been evaluated directly, assurances can be inferred
from the fact that one product has been successfully evaluated),

•       acceptance testing by a third party (also known as a Security
Qualification, where a third party performs specific security testing
on behalf of the purchaser, but without the formality of a formal
evaluation),

•       formal evaluation;.

Obviously, mutual recognition and acceptance of standards, criteria and
evaluation processes are necessary to achieve fully cost effective
solutions from all perspectives, ie user, supplier and service
provider.

Requirements

•       Commitment of management to the security function within
enterprises

•       establishment of common definitions for the different
evaluation options

•       Community and international standards for criteria and
methodology

•       choice in the access to independent evaluation capabilities.

5.3.2.  International Harmonisation ;and International  Mutual
Recognition

Issue

At the moment different evaluation criteria and evaluation schemes are
in use. These are especially the US, TCSEC, the European ITSEC and the
Canadian CTCPEC. Other countries like Japan have first drafts of
criteria. This situation is not acceptable to international
manufacturers who would have to perform different evaluations against
different criteria and schemes for a single product. This will
unnecessarily increase the cost of the product without enhancing the
security features.

Discussion

Various activities are currently under way to harmonise evaluation
criteria and evaluation schemes. The ITSEC and ITSEM is the result of
such a harmonisation process within Europe. The United Kingdom, France,
Germany and the Netherlands are discussing the mutual recognition of
each other's certificates based on ITSEC and ITSEM, with the intention
of achieving agreement in 1994.

In North America, the US and Canada co-operated in the production of
the first draft of the Federal Criteria. Following publication of the
Federal Criteria in early 1993, it has been decided to make all effort
to align the ITSEC and the Federal Criteria to produce a joint
European/North American set of Criteria compatible with existing
practices in both North America and Europe in 1994. This is the first
step towards international harmonisation between the two groups and
would be a major step forward. ISO/IEC JTC1/SC27, Working Group 3 is
also working on an ISO standard for evaluation criteria, based on the
ITSEC and the Federal Criteria.

Harmonisation of evaluation criteria is only the first step to reaching
mutual recognition of evaluation results. It will need to be
accompanied by agreement on evaluation methodology, evaluation schemes,
certification and accreditation practices. Only then will mutual
recognition between North America and Europe be possible. Even within
the European Community mutual recognition has turned out to be an
arduous task and mutual recognition of certificates is not yet
achieved, mainly for legal reasons. This indicates that world-wide
mutual recognition of certificates requires many, yet unknown, problems
to be solved.

Looking into the international arena, the only evaluation process and
certification scheme in the area of communications security (ie
computer networks) which has been in place for a significant time is
the US TCSEC evaluation scheme. The focus of this scheme is mainly to
evaluate and certify commercial operating system products suitable for
government applications. Currently the US are trying to widen this
scope with the Federal Criteria and the accompanying trust technology
programme of NIST whose main goal is to establish a more commercially
oriented evaluation and certification scheme with industrial evaluation
facilities like the ITSEFs in Europe.

Both the Federal Criteria as well as the trust technology program look
like a much better basis for international harmonisation but
nevertheless a considerable amount of work is necessary to achieve this
goal. Also, since both the new US criteria and commercial evaluation
process are not yet well established there is an opportunity to
influence this process. The fact that the US have sponsored two
parallel ITSEC evaluation of their TMach operating system show clearly
that the US side watches the European activities in this area very
carefully and tries to get as much information as possible (both
positive and negative!) about the European evaluation process.

Thus there is a will for co-operation which is clearly based on the
fact that US manufacturers sell a large quantities of products in
Europe. Other countries like Sweden, Australia and Japan are watching
this process very carefully.

Requirements

•       Establishment of conditions and procedures for mutual
recognition of evaluations

•       establishment of conditions and procedures for
EC-wide/international evaluations

•       international and EC standardisation of evaluation criteria and
methods.

5.3.3.  Vendor Declarations

Issue

For solutions that need security, but not the kind requiring formal
evaluations, vendor declarations are used. Currently, these are not
defined in terms of what they cover, what assurance they offer compared
to formal evaluation or who is liable if such products or systems
fail.

Discussion

Between the requirements for formally evaluated solutions and no
evaluation at all, there is a market for security products used by
business and the general public. Vendors do incorporate security
features in their products and provide some level of assurance, by
virtue of the normal quality standards used to develop and maintain the
product and the specific claims made by the vendor about the product.

Currently, end-users are not able to reliably compare such products
from different manufacturers because there are no guidelines which
specify the minimum content of vendor declaration documentation. Users
have to rely on vendor sales literature.

Vendor declarations also need to address the issue of assurance and
liability, if a fault in the product causes loss, injury or death to
users. This would then enable the user to calculate what the risks are
in using products covered by vendor declarations rather than products
that have been formally evaluated.

It may be possible to extend the formal evaluation scheme to include
vendor declarations as a sub-E1 methodology. The scope of vendor
declarations could be specified, together with the documentation
required (for example, the claims on security features could use the
same format as the ITSEC security target), quality procedures needed
and auditing of vendor (perhaps by EDP auditors). This method would
also allow users to see how vendor declarations compared with formal
evaluation, in terms of security features and assurance requirements
and keep a single, coherent evaluation scheme.

It may also be necessary to ascertain exactly where vendor declarations
could be used, or more importantly, where they should not be used. For
example, it may not be applicable for use in safety-critical systems.

Requirements

	Agreed definition of scope and liabilities of vendor
	declarations

	incorporation of vendor declarations in the ITSEC/ITSEM
	evaluation scheme

	specification of the types of systems which should not
	incorporate products covered by vendor declarations.

5.3.4.  Self-evaluation

Issue

To reduce the time and cost of formal evaluations, and to facilitate
re-evaluation, there is an opportunity for vendors and service
providers to both develop and formally evaluate systems, products and
services.

Discussion

Currently there are two methods used by users to assess the technical
security measures provided by a product or service and their
assurance:

•       vendor declarations;, and

•       impartial assessment by an organisation licensed to undertake
formal evaluations; using an evaluation scheme such as that used in the
UK or Germany based on the ITSEC/ITSEM evaluation criteria.

In general, vendors and service suppliers have a quality assurance
department which monitors and audits the development of products and
the use of services, ensuring that this is all done to the company
quality standards. This provides support for vendor declarations.

Vendors and service suppliers could set up a department which would be
an in-house evaluation facility and would undertake formal evaluations
in the same manner as current independent ITSEFs  Such in-house ITSEFs
would be monitored and controlled in the same way as independent
ITSEFs. The only difference would be that the in-house ITSEFs would be
a part of the vendors organisation, and not independent.

Self-evaluation may speed up evaluations, reduce their costs, and help
with re-evaluation as the evaluations could be done as an integrated
part of the development planned and executed by the same company, but
different departments.

There are certain types of systems for which self-evaluation would be
deemed not appropriate due to them requiring high-levels of assurance.
End-users may also wish to have independent formal evaluation rather
than self-evaluation to ensure that there is no conflict of interest.
For example, there may be financial and commercial pressures on the
in-house ITSEFs to take short cuts to speed up evaluations, not to
investigate certain aspects of the product/system or not to report
certain deficiencies in the product to the certifiers because this
would cause the product/system to be delayed, etc. Therefore a product
assessed using self-evaluation would not have as high an assurance as a
product independently evaluated.

End-users must be made aware of the advantages and disadvantages of
vendor declarations, self-evaluation and independent evaluation so that
they can procure a product/system with full knowledge of the security
features and assurance they are getting.

Self-evaluation compliments independent formal evaluation. The
ITSEC/ITSEM evaluation criteria should be extended to incorporate
self-evaluation and specify how it fits in between vendor declarations
and independent evaluation.

Requirements

•       Extension of the ITSEC/ITSEM evaluation criteria to include
self-evaluation.

5.3.5.  Evaluation of Applications

Issue

The user interest is finally with the security of his application. The
use of secure products, systems and services is a necessary but not a
sufficient condition to meet the user requirements for the protection
of the application.

Discussion

At present, evaluations and certification schemes address primarily
products and systems. Communication services are only partially
addressed and applications running on the products and via networks (in
particular public networks) are left to the user to address. However
with the restrictive handling of confidentiality mechanisms and
opposition against end-to-end encryption, the user is left exposed.

Requirements

•       Methods for evaluations to cover services and applications.

5.3.6.  Evaluation of Communication Services

Issue

With the ITSEC and ITSEM Europe has already a scheme for the
independent security evaluation of IT-products and (to some extent)
IT-systems. At the moment this scheme does not fully cover the aspect
of the evaluation of communication services, but extensions to this
scheme seem possible which are able to address the items not yet
covered by the current ITSEC/ITSEM scheme.

Discussion

The main item where communications security is considered in the public
is in the area of telecommunication services. Especially when people
send sensitive information to others using telecommunication services
they are interested that this information

•       gets to the intended recipient(s) in time

•       is not altered by the service

•       it not received by anyone else than to the intended
recipient(s).

Not all these aspects are of the same importance for each kind of
communication. The level of importance is highly dependent on the kind
of information one wants to transfer.

The use of telecommunication services grows rapidly as more powerful
equipment and services become available. A lot of companies and
especially administrations have policies which forbid the use of
specific telecommunication services for highly sensitive information
since they do not trust the communication services providers that some
of the above mentioned security issues are enforced adequately. They
use conventional techniques for the exchange of sensitive information
with conventional security measures (eg sending sealed letters by
registered mail or by courier).

In a time where industrial success depends on the fast exchange of all
types of information these conventional techniques become more and more
unacceptable. So the service providers will incorporate security
provisions within their services. But nevertheless a lot of companies
(and the national governments) will continue to use the conventional
techniques since they do not trust those security services unless they
are under their own control or being verified by independent experts.

Providing a security service as part of a telecommunication service
will normally result in all entities involved in the provision of the
telecommunication service being involved in providing the security
service. Additional entities may even be necessary (like eg a trusted
third party for key management issues or authentication services).
These entities use systems and products to provide their part of
telecommunication (and security) service. The total service is
therefore provided by an interaction of all the entities.

The current ITSEC/ITSEM scheme is aimed at the technical evaluation of
security measures within products and systems. It does not cover
organisational, personnel, administrative or non-IT related physical
security measures. Still many security services for telecommunication
will heavily rely not only on IT-security measures but also on the
above mentioned other security controls. For example a trusted third
party will surely need extensive organisational, personnel and non-IT
physical control. So it is clear that an extension to the ITSEC/ITSEM
evaluation scheme is necessary to cover these aspects. The following
section tries to identify how this can be done and which areas are not
yet covered.

Looking at communication services one can easily identify several
different types of communications-products and systems which have to
co-operate to provide the service. This includes for example

•       the end user equipment (telephone, modem or even his computer)

•       digital dialling switches

•       data concentrators

•       conventional computer systems with databases for eg user
profiles, directory information

•       conventional computer systems providing mailbox services

•       the communication media

•       gateways etc.

For a specific telecommunication service one can identify the task each
of these products or systems has to fulfil to provide this service. The
same is true for security services. Each component involved contributes
for one aspect of the security objectives or functions. These will then
differ significantly in the functionality as well as in the assurance
level required. Various topics regarding this may lead to problems, for
instance:. assumptions on the security provisions to be taken in the
environment of the product or system. Some of the security measures
will heavily depend on hardware features. Evaluation of non-IT security
features, like effectiveness of personnel and administrative security
measures has to be established. The integration of all security
measures has to be checked for consistency, completeness and
effectiveness. For the evaluation of a communication service,
therefore, different evaluations of systems involved in providing the
service are necessary before the whole service can be evaluated.

Requirements

•       Evaluation of communications hardware and infrastructure
security features

•       formal accreditation scheme for secure communication services

•       accreditation guidelines for the telecommunication sector

•       trial service evaluations for existing telecommunication
services

•       articulation of the requirements of service evaluation.

5.3.7.  Trusted Network Management

Issue

Trusted Network Management systems need to maintain a given assurance
level while optimising the use of communication assets to achieve good
economics and quality of service.

Discussion

There is a growing dependence in the security of network management
systems for managing and controlling the provision of
telecommunications. This is due to an increased reliance on distributed
systems, the provision of new value added services and operations, and
on the increased sophistication and richness of network and service
functionality. Such dependency is placing greater demands on
performance and quality of service. Tomorrow’s electronic highways
should be managed networks that should ideally interoperate in a
seamless way to ensure efficient "self-healing" network operations and
flexible creation and provision of a broad range of services, including
those supplied by third party suppliers. The management of
telecommunications systems security is thus growing in complexity
commensurate with the growth in communications systems and the
associated services and business use.

The major network management issues involve the protection of
electronic information in storage, in transmission and being processed.
Information used and applied to the controlling and maintenance of
networks and services. Information that is used as input to the process
of decision making and operational support, and which is also used as
input to the emerging new wave of intelligent systems and
communications. The provision of appropriate and effective network
management solutions is fundamental to the success of the future
telecommunications infrastructure for Europe.

Given the complex telecommunication systems that are evolving, the
interrelationships that are needed for multi-domain working, grade of
service requirements against a future European framework for
legislation and regulation needed to maintain multi-domain working, the
provision and maintenance of network management security the question
of security evaluation is a key issue. What is the alternative if
evaluation of network management security is not carried out ?

There are a number of constraints imposed by end users, service
providers and network operators on the provision of security for
network management eg concerning the employment of intelligence in
networks and the idea of securing shared resources, dealing with
different threat analysis and the responsibility for service
liability.

Requirements

•       Methods for network management evaluation

•       definition of Functionality Classes (or Protection Profiles)
suitable for systems, products and services used in network management
systems

•       accreditation guidelines for the trusted network management

•       trial evaluations for existing network management systems.

5.3.8.  Evaluation of Methods and Tools

Issue

The methods and tools used to design, develop and maintain trusted
products and systems need to be trustworthy.

Discussion

Methods and tools used to develop trusted products and systems must be
trusted to function correctly. For example, a compiler and linker must
be trusted not to include malicious code in the resulting executable
image. Such malicious code may only be visible if the executable image
or object code is directly investigated (ie decompiled).

There is a need for trusted compilers, linkers, semi-formal tools
(CASE; tools) and formal methods tools (eg 'Z;' and LOTOS;
tool, etc.), configuration management tools, etc.

The evaluation may take the form of a straight forward assessment of
tools or the production of rules for how each specific tool should be
used to develop trusted products.

A register could be produced and maintained of methods and tools which
are suitable (or not suitable) for the development of trusted products
and systems. When a new tool is developed, the vendor will have to
ensure that the tool is added to the list, if he wishes to use it (or
sell it to a third party to use) on developing trusted software. The
register may also be able to say which tools can be used for which
assurance level.

Requirements

•       Guidelines for the evaluation of methods and tools used to
develop trusted products, systems and services

•       register of methods and tools which can be used to develop
trusted solutions.

5.3.9.  Physical and Procedural Issues

Issue

Need to produce a common standard for the physical and procedural
issues required to maintain the security of evaluated products and
systems.

Discussion

There is no point in two countries buying the same ITSEC 'E3 product,
configuring them in the same way only to find that their physical and
procedural security measures (eg personnel, system administration,
system operation, end-user organisation, building security, system
maintenance etc.) are incompatible with the security of the system.
Each country would have a product with a security target that included
the same environment assumptions, but these may be interpreted
differently and the different interpretations may be accepted by the
system accreditors in each country.

As well as having international harmonisation on the evaluation
criteria, effort should also be made to produce guidelines for the
physical and procedural measures required to maintain trusted systems
which apply internationally. Thus as well as having mutual
certification, it would also be possible to have mutual accreditation.

Requirements

•       Guidelines for physical and procedural measures required to
maintain trusted systems.

5.3.10. Modifications to Evaluated Products ;and Re-evaluation

Issue

The shortening life cycle of products and the rapid evolution of
services and applications due to competitive pressures implies the need
for frequent adaptations and therefore re-evaluation.

Discussion

The impact of Open System, with its emphasis on portability and
interoperability, has resulted in many new products being incremental
releases of existing products, for new operational platforms,
applications, etc. There may be multiple releases or versions of a
hardware or software solution in a short period of time. The evaluation
and certification of the product may take longer than the period
between releases or updates to the solution. A certificate currently
applies to a specific release or version. Changes may invalidate the
certificate.

There is a need to devise a method to cope with these product or system
changes so that the certified status of a product may be maintained.

Particular concerns include:

•       Scope of the evaluation; - Is an evaluation necessary for
every single platform-dependent configuration of a product already
certified?

•       Assurance; - Is it necessary to have an entire new release
evaluated again in which only a small modification occurred (eg a
spelling mistake in the user interface)?

•       Re-use; of previous evaluation work and results - Must the
evaluation of sensitive and relevant but unmodified components of a
product be repeated? ITSEC and ITSEM have created a good basis on which
to identify the key issues of re-evaluation and subsequent
re-certification.

Practical experience of re-evaluation is limited but the problem may be
mitigated by identifying key requirements. One approach is to
categorise code in the security Target of Evaluation (ITSEC-TOE).

This “Traffic Light” approach includes:

a)      GREEN code that has no bearing on the security functionality of
the product or system and that may be modified in future releases
without impact on the security of the product or system.

b)      YELLOW code that might impact the security of the product or
system and that must be inspected by an independent party (such as an
ITSEF) before re-certification can be considered.

c)      RED code that is critical to the security functionality of the
product or system for which may modifications may require re-evaluation
of the whole product or system.

This approach will assist developers, evaluators and certifiers in
containing the level of necessary re-evaluation commitment following
any modifications. feedback on how well this approach works is
required.

Experience is available on the parallel field of quality evaluation of
software products. A framework for re-evaluation is outlined in ISO9126
and associated processes. It is likely that the impact of software
quality on "operational" correctness of security products will force
alignment of the various processes.

Requirements

•       Definition of rules and procedures for re-evaluation based on
methods currently used

•       alignment of the design process with the principles of
re-evaluation, “design-for-change”.

5.3.11. Performance Reporting for Trusted Products

Issue

Obligation to take corrective action in the case of faults found in
evaluated products.

Discussion

Despite the successful evaluation and certification of a product or
system, there is a small chance, smaller with the higher assurance
levels, that a security related fault will be detected. The Developer
or Vendor is likely to have this fault reported to him and ought to
take steps to correct this fault as quickly as possible and issue a new
release of the software or hardware.

The Certification Body needs to be informed of the occurrence of such a
fault and the steps the Developer intends to take to correct the fault.
The Certification Body and the Developer need to discuss the need for
any re-evaluation work and agree a timescale for this.

Where a Developer is unwilling to correct the fault, the Certification
Body needs to decide whether to withdraw the certified status and
publish the fact that a fault exists (although not necessarily the
details of the fault) or, perhaps, change the conditions upon which the
certificate was granted.

When a fault does occur, perhaps due to the way a system has been
configured, or due to a specific fault with the product, end-users
should be obliged to report the fault to the Developer and to their
Certification Body. If this product is in wide spread use throughout
the World, it may be necessary to inform all end-users who could be
affected that a fault exists, detailing the security implications.
In-order to be able to this, it would be necessary to set up an
international register of evaluated product users (or an equivalent
system).

Requirements

•       Incident reporting system for Certification Bodies

•       user and supplier obligations to report incidents

•       supplier obligations to take corrective actions, and to
initiate re-evaluation

•       register of evaluated product and their owners.

5.3.12. Rationalisation of Evaluations

Issue

Speeding up and lowering cost of evaluation and thereby improve
attractiveness of security evaluations.

Discussion

Two key factors to the success of a security market enhancement are
that evaluations are approachable and that the products or systems are
developed in a way that is meant to meet the ITSEC requirements
beforehand. It must also be understood that in many industrial cases,
security, while indeed an important feature of a product or service, is
only one aspect of an even larger target which is product quality or
the quality of service.

Considerable work has been carried on in the broad field of software
quality; and its engineering which might be valuable to the security
community. Several standards address quality through an evaluation and
certification approach, eg ISO 9000 and ISO 9126, at the organisation
level, at the process and at the product level.

Those standards are well established and the demand for
certificates; based on them is growing rapidly. There is an urgent need
to consider the harmonisation of the ITSEC and ITSEM contents, to take
into account to a much larger and clearer extent the benefits brought
by these standards to security and to help reduce costs and needs of
several, disconnected or even conflicting evaluation and certification
processes. The ITSEC approach seems to be sufficiently well accepted
today to consider its integration into a broader context. A closer
technical look at quality standards and ITSEC/ITSEM taken together
shows that, although they are all based on the same fundamental ideas
and principles, there are residual conflicts when evaluations are to be
carried out, either due to different requirements or to different
evaluation approaches.

The following steps seem relevant:

•       While preserving the current technical principles and
requirements, a better distinction between specifically security
related requirements and more quality related requirements should be
made so that it becomes clearer, if not explicit, what the various
other evaluation systems and associated requirements can cover and/or
contribute to.

•       As all standards evolve, the ITSEC and ITSEM will have to be
updated, at the level of the actual required deliverables, for
instance, to be directly compatible with what the other domains
require, while still remaining specific.

•       Parts of the current ITSEC requirements might eventually be
replaced by requirements for relevant quality certificates, and
hopefully vice versa.

Requirements

•       Alignment of security evaluation criteria and methods with
those for quality and safety, where sensible

•       portability of results between quality, safety and security
evaluations.

5.4.    Maintenance of Safety and Assurance

Issues

To maintain safety and assurance in operation for systems in changing
environments, with changing system elements over long periods of time
(30 years)

Discussion

There is a need to maintain the safety and assurance of systems during
operation and after decommissioning.  These problems are exacerbated by
the emergence of large, distributed systems with safety implications
and the changing nature of the organisations n which they are embedded.
There is the danger that key safety or security properties are
established by properties of the organisation that are not made
explicit and are undermined as the organisation changes. This could
include the move to contract out work to contractors with a different
mindset to the service provider; the slow undermining of safety culture
(this is especially important in some Eastern European countries) and
the consequential problems of relying on procedures and drills; ; the
changing technical and linguistic skills rate of the workforce.

There are also the technical issues associated with the evaluation and
development of systems and the need for methods and techniques that
recognise the impact of  these changes and allow for appropriate design
and engineering measures to be implemented. Coupled to these changes to
the system is the problem posed by the relatively rapidly changing
technology and the likely obsolescence of the systems being used. The
need to plan for obsolescence should be recognised from the outset and
consideration given to the extent of information required for
re-engineering.  This covers the capture of expertise, design
rationale, development documentation and the access to tools used in
developing the system that themselves may be obsolete and may involve
IPR issues as well. Organisations need t know how to plan for
obsolescence, how to determine the best approach to re-engineering
(complete redevelopment, translation of software, emulation of old
hardware etc.), when it should be done and  the risk, costs and
benefits.

Many systems are already obsolete and do not posses the documentation
necessary for re-engineering. Strategies for dealing with these systems
in a cost effective manner that preserves safety need to be developed
and associated reverse engineering techniques developed for the system
(hardware, software, people, organisation).

There is also a need to address the reuse of old systems in new
applications and the implications for safety assurance and
certification.

Requirements

•       Approach for tracking the evolution of systems and identifying
when significant changes to safety and security requirements are taking
place

•       strategies and techniques for re engineering of obsolete
systems.

5.5.    Technological Change

Issue

Changes in the way in which technology is used throughout society will
result in demands for new  technological approaches; to information
security.

Discussion

Over the next decades it is to be expected that the macro economic
climate will change dramatically.  This is mainly driven by the shift
in geographic location of the generation of the worlds GDP from North
America  and Europe to a more even spread, with the Pacific rim
countries producing a larger share. The health and nutrition problems
that will face the developing world will become more acute as a greater
fraction of their population enters adulthood.

Information underpins these processes in a number of ways. The
financial aspects of global businesses will become vital to their
survival and the timely, accurate and where appropriate private
communication of  financial information on a global and adaptable scale
will be critical. Health care information will need to be routinely
available as health carers deal with the health problems of an
increasing number of mobile people. Transportation of food to areas in
need will require logistic information to be available in remote and
underdeveloped parts of the world quickly and accurately.

The developed world will make increasing use of their less structured
employment patterns to earn money in a variety of ways and in
performing a range of tasks, less and less to do with manufacturing.
Success will only be possible by the exploitation of mobility and wide
bandwidth telecommunications services. It has the potential to provide
quality of life together with high productivity. The effectiveness of
this approach, in providing a method of revenue generation, will
depend, inter alia, upon the performance, reliability and security of
the information and transportation infrastructures.

Driving technologies within this scenario are:

•       Wide bandwidth telecommunications, including

-       Multi media  applications and communications

-       Global teleconferencing

•       Mobile services for all applications

•       Gigabyte storage in portable systems

Robotically controlled transportation mechanisms.

It will be essential for a range of security and safety features to be
embedded as a matter of design in all infrastructures, services and
applications for them to deliver the benefits that are expected by
their users.

Broadband communications

Bandwidth will become a commodity on telecommunication systems. The
added value in using it comes from the quality of service provided. One
aspect of such quality is that of security. To provide security on
wide-band public switched networks, investment is needed that is
focused on those aspects of security that are required by a) the
telecom service provider for his own purposes and b) the end user to
support his application. Community wide and international
specifications on security in ATM, SDH and associated signalling
structures will be necessary.

Multi media  applications ;and communications

Multi media applications will integrate all known representations of
information into files, documents, messages and displays.
Representations such as voice, audio, still image, text, video and
graphics will become interchangeably available from a range of
equipments that users interact with, including mobile telephones,
personal computers, television sets and personal communicators. All
aspects of security must be incorporated for potential implementation
an all of these systems in order that a user may implement a level of
security service appropriate to the application and the environment.

A key issue is to maintain the “veracity” of the information
transmitted. Veracity is the feature of a piece of information (eg a
video sequence) to be true.  Veracity is a wider concept than integrity
which is only concerned with the protection of information during
transmission and storage.

Another issue is concerned with the protection of information through
copyright.  Without suitable technical means to safeguard the interests
of the information owner, the evolution towards the information society
will be seriously hampered.

Global teleconferencing

Teleconferencing is becoming the substitute for travel. In order to
make it really cost effective all the above applications, multimedia,
mobility, access to mass data and if necessary access to  one or more
parties who are travelling in private vehicles need to be incorporated
within the teleconferencing application. True geographic independence
will come only if such an application works on a global scale and
provides all the security services that are needed by the community of
users. Such an application will demand the integration of the security
services provided for each of the sub-applications alone.
Specifications to allow such integration should be defined and the
technology to provide the security functionality developed.

Mobile services; for applications.

Mobility provides the end user with geographic independence. The price
paid for this independence is infrastructural information and process
that allows his demands on the infrastructural services to be met
wherever he is. Such information and process has to, by design, have
security features incorporated. At the community level extensions of
the GSM concepts to allow all applications to function securely in the
way telephony does on GSM will require significant technological
investment.

Mass data storage; and communications in  portable systems

Access to huge amounts of data from a mobile terminal will be
essential. Such data needs to be communicated  securely, whether it be
held in volatile memory, in the form of mechanically read ROM or
transmitted over a network. Specifications for securing such data need
to be developed as do the necessary bulk encryption services for huge
data volumes . The technology components of such services will be a
major challenge and need to be defined now.

Robotically controlled transportation mechanisms Automated systems

Human involvement in controlling mass transportation mechanisms is
already decreasing as technology becomes more reliable. If human
involvement  for individual transportation is to shrink in the same way
then mass production of cost effective safety assured technologies will
be essential. Collision avoidance , guidance and navigation systems
will be essential parts of  every domestic vehicle and the requirements
for the information safety and security critical elements of such
systems need to be defined, standardised and developed .

Real time tools for IS diagnostics and counter measures

Information security and safety depending on the collaboration of
several information systems face a serious problem of providing
seamless assurance. Once established the assurance level has to be
monitored and maintained throughout the transaction or service.
Technologically this represents a major challenge going well beyond
present day techniques.

Requirements

•       Incorporation of information security requirements into R&D and
engineering of new systems, services and applications

•       information security technology for multi-media and other
advanced services and applications.



6.      Rights,; Responsibilities; and Liabilities Liability





6.1.    Legal Framework

Issue

A differentiated approach needs to be taken to the establishment of a
legal framework for information security.

Discussion

To formulate such an approach, one must to look first at the special
problems that electronic data presents, why electronic data is or may
be (legally) different from data in paper form, and what needs to be
done about it.   In terms of the latter, the issues identified as
crucial to the establishment of a legal model for the security of
electronic data include:

•       meshing Community rules, regulations and guidelines about the
security of electronic data with those already in force on the
supranational, international and national levels;

•       ascertaining the best legal measures for dealing with the
legally relevant features of electronic data that are different from
those of data on paper;

•       dealing with the expectations and awareness of suppliers, users
and third parties vis-a-vis their own interaction with and response to
the law of the security and the evidence of electronic data;

•       asserting defences such as certification, information security
audits and the adoption of an appropriate duty of care

•       addressing substantive and procedural issues relating to
information security law and law of evidence;  and

•       ensuring that the model which is created supports and is not
inconsistent with public policy.

In addition, any model which is developed must be valid for not only
computer-driven electronic data, but also for electronic data which is
communicated by or transmitted over telecommunications networks,
satellites or other communications facilities, especially as the
distinctions between the technologies blur.

It is against this backdrop that the following framework for developing
an approach to the rights, responsibilities and liabilities relating to
the security of information systems was developed.

In this, a glossary of concepts and terms must be developed so that the
ideas, recommendations and conclusions discussed in this chapter can be
understood and applied and so that there can be a guarantee, to the
extent possible, of consistency in the analysis of the subject matter.

A report consisting of preliminary recommendations for the necessity
and (realistic) potential for the evolution of a new model for the
protection of and economic rights deriving from electronic data and
information should be prepared.

Requirements

•       Glossary of concepts and terms

•       model for the evolution of protection of and economic rights
deriving from electronic data and information.

6.2.    Data held in Electronic Form

Issue

A distinction must be made of data held in electronic form and data
held in material form.

Discussion7

Adopting the widest possible definition of information security is
fundamental to creating a model for information security legislation.
For example, a substantial body of current legislation relating to
information security is based on the protection of intellectual
property rights or (personal) data, and not necessarily on physical
intrusions to systems.  As such, new rights and liabilities
Liability ;may have to created, and these run to the protection of
economic as well as to intellectual property interests.  Also, as much
attention needs to be devoted to the data (and information) which
systems generate as to the systems themselves.  Thus, consideration
must be given to such issues as how data is:

•       generated (by systems)

•       valued (as an asset)

•       perceived (by users; owners; and individuals and organisations
who are subject to this information)

•       potentially itself a threat.

A paper document normally consists of three aspects:

•       the carrier (the sheet of paper)

•       text and pictures (the physical representation of the
information)

•       information about the originator to verify the authenticity
(usually a written signature)

The connections among carrier, text and signature are self-evident.
Therefore normally only the carrier (the paper) is mentioned.  It gives
delimitation and structure to one finalised representation of the
content.  These aspects are physically "locked" via the paper that
carries the information in one "unchangeable" and durable combination.
Paper documents are normally given the necessary signs of authenticity
by a written signature: the reader has confidence in the information
about the originator and in that the text is not altered.  A signature
also gives a warning before a judicial act and conforms the final
content in a contract, etc.  Paper documents are in principle unique
physical examples; originals.  The stored state and readable state are
identical.  The paper document is immediately readable and the storing
is normally in a language that the user will understand without special
training.  A manipulation of a paper document has to be a material
attack, traceable upon the physical object.  An individual makes -
often unconsciously  - a visual authenticity control when he is reading
an important paper document.  The information within a paper document
is directly transcribed from a human thought process.

Electronic documents confer new dimensions.  The carrier, the text and
the "signature" are not related to each other in the same "locked" and
durable form as in a  paper document.  Descriptions of electronic
documents will normally make immaterial wordings, not physical objects,
the starting point.  It could on occasion be difficult to obtain
information about how the user intended to process stored text-data and
compute programs.  Without certain technical authentication procedures
there is no "lock" for the information in an electronic document and
such objects are not immediately readable.  Manipulation of a digital
record consists of untraceable alterations of a bit pattern.  The
visual authenticity control of a paper document has no correspondence
in the area of electronic information services.  Computerised materials
often are the result of automatic processing that at times may not be
directly connected to a human thought.

The following may be considered factors which differentiate electronic
from material (ie non-electronic) data:

Evidence

Special rules apply in certain jurisdictions relating to the production
and admissibility of computer generated information and data and the
burden of proof regarding computer generated information submitted to
court.

Form

In certain jurisdictions the law requires insists upon the adoption of
a certain form (embodiment) in order for a document or other instrument
to be legally valid, eg in the UK, a will must be a paper document.

Processing

Automated processing,  which characterises electronically held data,
means that electronic data can be processed in a way which is far
faster, more efficient and more accurate than processing which can
practicably take place in terms of paper-based systems.  For example,
census data in the United States can be processed in a meaningful
timescale only in an automated environment; such processing would be
virtually impossible if this data were manipulated only on paper.

Preservation

Some jurisdictions require that documents be available for consultation
and review for up to 150 years.  The preservation and storage of
material form documents is increasingly a problem while the
preservation and long-term storage of non-material (ie electronic)
documents is currently uncertain, especially as to their integrity.

Accessibility

Data in electronic form is, by definition, not in a form in which a
human being can readily without other aids, inspect, review supervise,
read or understand the data.  In all cases, highly specific methods are
needed to represent electronic data in human processable form, and
these methods may not be readily subject to verification.

Data Compression

Data is more and more accessible both in terms of cost and physical
convenience as data compression techniques make it possible to reduce
vast quantities of data to, for example, a few, manageable CD-ROMs,
thus increasing the opportunity for harm.

Aggregation

Aggregation involves reorganising (ie sorting, merging, appending and
deleting) the data contained in disparate databases - a fundamental and
commercial reason for implementing automated data processing systems.
'New' information, or even 'potential documents' (ie documents which
are either properly or fraudulently constructed)  can be derived
through aggregation, thus creating information which was neither
understood nor intended at the time or point of collection.

Quasi-material form

Whilst the data itself may be processed in a non-material form, it is
commonly fixed within a material form of some kind particularly, but
not exclusively, for the purpose of storage. It is therefore difficult
to ascertain which legal principles should apply.

Dissemination

Once information is made publicly available in an electronic form it is
for all practical purposes impossible to prevent the further
dissemination of that material, material which might be inaccurate,
incomplete or invalid.

Persistence

Related to dissemination is persistence.  Persistence characterises the
condition where  inaccurate, invalid or incomplete data may persist on
multiple computers and databases, and may even be erroneously
reinstated on computers and databases on which corrections or deletions
were thought to have been properly made.

Original

Legal and practical requirements for original documents require
particular measures in terms of electronic data as it is difficult (and
sometimes impossible) to differentiate between originals and copies.

Ownership ;(s.a. intellectual property rights)

Information cannot be 'owned' in most jurisdictions.  Often, this
status derives from public policy which mandates that information must
be in free circulation and available to all or from a strand of legal
analysis which renders it impossible to exert sole domain over
information, or permanently deprive its 'owner' of use.  It is
possible, however, to own the intellectual property rights in such
information, rights such as: copyright, the right to confidentiality
and trade secret protection.  This model is not dissimilar to that for
information held in material form, but the nature of electronic
information (which allows it to be cut, sliced, transmitted,
transformed, etc.) may require new rights and protections to be
developed (see reference to economic rights, above).

Durability

Documents in material form generally continue to retain their legal
status even though they may suffer minor damage such as, for example,
bent corners, small tears or moisture spots.  However, minor damage to
documents in electronic form may severely affect the durability of
these documents unless special processes and techniques have been
introduced to resist such damage.

Expectations

Non-specialists in electronic information and data processing and
storage are largely ignorant and often frightened of computer
processing and computer-generated information and documents.  One
consequence of these perceptions is that unreal expectations of the
confidential nature and the exclusivity of the data being collected,
stored and processed exist.

Data exchange

Data and information have traditionally been exchanged in material
form, thereby maximising the (perceived) control over dissemination and
monitoring which people have of the data and information being
exchanged.  None of these comfort factors operate in the electronic
exchange of data unless they have been made explicitly available.
People may not know enough to put them in place, or to complain about
their absence.  In particular, in a face-to-face conversation the
exchange is specifically not fixed in a material form, and is limited
to 'processing' by the parties present.  On the other hand, an
electronic conversation may be fixed, may persist and may unwittingly
convert slander (spoken) into libel (embodied in electronic form and
then generated into material form).

Standardisation  of the use of electronic data

Conventional paper based systems are based on methods and
interpretations which are assumed to be well understood by all
individuals involved. Data in electronic form must closely follow
complete sets of standards (codes, formats, etc) and instructions for
equipment use to be as intellible as recorded conventional information.
To some degree such standards and instructions must still be
developed.

Requirements

•       Identification, categorisation and analysis of existing
(current) rules and laws dealing with  data held in electronic form

 •      definition of the dependent and consequent legal relationships,
 obligations and liabilities Liability;for each of the
 characteristics (differences) in the context of information systems
 security.

6.3.    Environment

Issue

The legal, commercial and political environment which gives rise to the
requirement for information security has changed more in the last five
years than in the previous two thousand.  It is likely that this change
will become even more rapid, and will develop in ways which cannot be
readily foreseen at present.

Discussion

Legislative environment

It is within this environment that legislators, government officials
and politicians must write legislation that is not only effective
today, but will endure for some time, and not be overtaken by
technological change as it occurs.  This means that information
security legislation cannot be drafted on a reactive basis (ie it
cannot be written to correct problems which have occurred in the past),
but rather on a proactive basis, ie it must anticipate the effect of
technology on society.

To achieve a proactive approach to information security legislation,
legislators and their advisers must have detailed knowledge of
information and information security.  If this knowledge - and control
- does not exist, real dangers can emerge.  For example, legislation
based on incomplete or skewed research can result in:

•       the unnecessary expenditure of money to make up for weak
legislation

•       threats to the democratic processing of data

•       the evasion of weak legislative controls by such means as
siting businesses in data havens.

New thinking about information security law also requires:

•       a realignment of the legislative balance between privacy and
the free circulation of data

•       the management of technology vis-a-vis data protection
responsibilities

•       a complete re-examination of the existing framework of
commercial, company and other regulatory legislation so that the new
law of information security can be incorporated

Commercial environment

The rate of technological change mentioned in the previous section has
an especially critical effect on organisations:  the rate of day-to-day
changes in technology currently exceeds the rate at which organisations
can change in order to adopt and implement these changes.  It is
unlikely that this situation will change.   Attempts at implementing
rapidly changing technology  requires substantial investment from
either capital or income and  introduces a reliance upon third parties
to provide essential technical infrastructure and support which was
never present when information could only be processed in a material
form.  In some instances, organisations may be specifically forbidden
from providing some elements of infrastructure themselves, for example,
telecommunications providers.  This shift in expertise from inside
organisations to third parties means that vulnerability and dependency
is significantly increased and to some extent, organisations may be
driven by their service providers.

Similarly, organisations find technology change difficult to manage
because the requisite expertise is not always present at the right
level, and indeed it may never be cost effective for any but the
largest organisations to develop and retain such expertise in-house.

Political environment

Tension exists between governments' vested interest in maximising the
development and exploitation of technology as a way of guaranteeing
their country's commercial success and their duty to preserve the
privacy and rights of individuals.  Consequently, there is a danger
that government policy in promoting economic growth may result in the
distortion of the decision-making process for selecting sound
technological solutions.

It is essential that an informed public debate take place as to whether
a special regime is required for the management and regulation of
electronic data handling and processing in the political environment.
This debate must take place in the light of existing legal frameworks
but the conclusions must be sufficiently flexible as to withstand the
constantly changing technological and political environment.

Requirements

•       Re-examination in the context of information security rights,
responsibilities and liabilities Liability;of the management of
information systems security within organisations and organisations'
relationships with third party providers of information security (and
related) services

•       models to introduce certainty and consistency with respect to
legal obligations for owners, directors, managers, employees,
consultants, contractors, Trusted Third Parties, auditors and lawyers

•       model clauses relating to information security which can be
included in contracts or other agreements in place between parties

•       an understanding of the rights, responsibilities and
obligations which underpin and define the relationship between
information security and the political environment  requires:

-       examination of the context in which governments collect and
process data.

-       review of the role of information in investigatory activities
and in ensuring the public order

-       resolution of the conflict between supra-national government
objectives and national governmental objectives with respect to data
collection, processing, transmission and storage, etc.

6.4.    Interaction and Relationships between Private Parties

Issue

Central to the environment in which information security exists are the
relationships which are formed between private parties.

Discussion

These relationships include:

•       mere communication between them (by electronic means)

•       regulation of their society, ie by the laws which govern their
interaction

•       contracts and other agreements forged between them

Requirements

•       Identification of the economic stakes and benefits will be
required in order to ascertain what interests need to be protected,
regulated and redressed if and when something goes wrong.

6.5.    Harm

Issue

The harm that can be caused by the reliance on electronic communication
systems.

Discussion

Harm is the negative by-product of reliance on electronic data systems
without being able to develop a reliable trust in them either
purposively (ie where the user or beneficiary of the data processing is
otherwise in a position to take appropriate security measures) or
passively (ie where the user or beneficiary is otherwise not in a
position to take appropriate security measures).   This is in direct
contrast with the trust which has evolved in (as well as the controls
over and the management of) paper-based systems throughout their
history.  As a result, there is a great deal of work which needs to be
done to close the gap between the methods of inculcating trust in and
controlling and managing electronic systems as opposed to paper-based
systems so as to be able to deflect potential harm to them.  It is also
important to ensure that this is done in no greater nor more burdensome
manner than characterises paper-based systems.

A comprehensive list of the common and extraordinary threats which
endanger electronic communication must be constructed so that the
boundaries of harm can be established.  It is likely that most threats
will fall under the following headings:

•       theft and fraud

•       mis- and dis-information

•       invasion of privacy

•       harm due to inadequate technology

Listings of some of these threats may be obtained from work published
by standards bodies or carried out for national and supra-national
administrative bodies.  It may be that additional work may be needed in
order to avoid legislative delay.

Requirements

•       Comprehensive list of the common and extraordinary threats
which endanger electronic communication.

6.6.    Eliminating harm; or Mitigating Harm

Issue

Legal possibilities to eliminate or mitigate harm caused directly or
indirectly through the use of electronic communication.

Discussion

Options for eliminating or mitigating harm already exist in the form of
treaties, laws and rules ("legislation") which address to some extent
the harms which threaten electronic data and processing.  However, in
many cases, this legislation has been drafted:

•       in the context of the behaviour of paper-based systems and as
such is applied by analogy;  or

•       by attempting to adapt existing and often ill-suited
legislation to electronic data and processing; or

•       by bolting on to existing legislation provisions which relate
specifically to electronic data and processing but which are not
followed through in the main body of the legislation (and thus creating
ineffective, incomplete or confusing rights, obligations or
liabilitiesLiability;); or

•       by interpreting existing legislation so that it encompasses
electronic data and processing (eg "record-keeping" provisions)

Existing legislation which follows one or more of these four patterns
exists as or in the form of:

•       Supra-national and international treaties; and guidelines,
eg the European Convention of Human Rights

•       Constitutional rights

•       Consumer protection

•       Criminal acts;, eg theft; and the deprivation of
ownership;, forgery;, fraud;, counterfeiting;, destruction
to property

•       Civil acts;, eg libel; and slander;, trespassing;,
unauthorised disclosure;, laws granting judicial immunity

•       Company and organisational law;.

Legislation created specifically to address the harms relating to
electronic data and processing also exists but often does not go far
enough in protecting the underlying rationale (usually economic) or
take into account the complete matrix of rights, responsibilities and
liabilities on the one hand, and technical obligations on the other (eg
in the form of physical and organisational measures):

•       Data protection laws ;and principles

•       Computer crime laws

•       Law protecting intellectual property rights (s.a.
ownership);,.

There is, however, one instrument which can be distinguished and which
constitutes a strong foundation from which future legislation can be
built, and that is the OECD Principles.

Any action must:

•       take into account the potential threats to the rights and
responsibilities associated with electronic information systems

•       consider the possibility that greater liabilities will attach
in the absence of appropriate remedies.

Requirements

•       Threat analysis so as to be able to identify, develop and
implement new legal remedies to deflect harm

•       re-examination of the applicability and suitability of existing
legislation to the mitigation of harm.

6.7.    Legal Restrictions affecting Technical Solutions

Issue

Legal restrictions to the use of technically feasible solutions often
exist.

Discussion

It is essential to recognise that technology and custom and practice
must be considered in the context of and balanced with law and legal
solutions. A process must be undertaken to ensure that technical
solutions are legal ones, and that technical custom and practice adhere
to the laws, codes of practice, guidelines and other regulatory
instruments in force.  For example, a technological breakthrough in
speeding up the production of multiple copies of copyrighted works may
be technically valuable, but illegal when used in all but a narrow
range of circumstances.

Technical countermeasures to different kinds of attacks, such as
cryptography, exist for communication system security which are both
economically and operationally effective.  However, legal restrictions
to their use often exist, usually because of fears over national
security and their use to hide criminal acts.

Political debate involving governments, law enforcement agencies,
commercial enterprises and individuals needs to take place.

Requirements

•       Identification of any real dangers which could exist where
confidentiality measures are used

•       balance illegal against valid use and extract those uses for
and conditions under which the balance militates in favour of valid
use.

6.8.    Limitations to Liability

6.8.1.  Recommendations for Liability Limiting Measures

Issue

In case of a security incident, liability need to be properly
apportioned.

Discussion

Codes of practice comprise an essential element in the development of
information systems security regulation. They may provide both a basis
for regulation (by setting out principles and guidelines to be
followed) and for a possible defence (against claims of negligence).

Points to be addressed include:

•       Definition of their role, function and effect

•       Identification of the concerned parties, eg the beneficiaries,
those obligated to comply, suppliers of goods and services, integrators
and facilitators, suppliers of raw products

•       Coverage, eg physical security devices, practices, services

•       Legislative/regulatory aspects, eg

-       individual or body empowered to issue the code (eg secretary of
state, professional body)

-       scope of the issuer's authority

-       intended effect (eg statutory or merely persuasive)

•       Standards to be adopted, eg

-       "in a good and workmanlike manner"

-       "using materials of good quality and fit for their several
purposes"

-       effect of standards of care, eg "due regard"

•       Types of liability

•       Accountability and directors (compliance statements)

•       Adjudication of claims under a code

•       Structure of codes,

•       Drafting of baseline controls

Requirements

•       Recommendations for liability limiting measures.

6.8.2.  Information Security Audit

Issue

Ensurance of adequate compliance to security measures, Codes of
Practice, laws and regulation.

Discussion

Many organisations currently undertake an information security (or
computer) audit on a regular basis.  It is a tool for ensuring that the
appropriate and relevant security measures are in place, and it can be
a defence against claims of fraud or negligence in the operation of the
organisation's electronic data processing systems or the data which
those systems process.

The following are key issues to be examined with respect to the
information security audit:

•       Compliance and disclosure

-       Requirement for audit through company or other organisational
law

-       Responsibility for failure to protect, eg

-       civil penalties for non-compliance

-       shareholder suits

-       automatic disqualification and loss of position

-       restitution of losses

•       Creation of the defences to liability

-       Identification of existing

-       minimum standards for security

-       legislation and regulation

-       Creation of

-       the proper balance between compliance and protection

-       appropriate security measures

•       Recommendations for the coverage and timing of audits,

Requirements

•       Framework for the monitoring of compliance to regulations,
recommendations and good practices.

6.9.    Procedural  issues ;Jurisdictional Issues

Issue

The creation of any rights or responsibilities and the identification
of liabilities must be done within the framework of jurisprudentially
acceptable procedures and mechanisms.

Discussion

Within the framework of international law are concepts and definitions
of procedural issues relating to jurisdiction which are recognised by
all legal systems found within the Community.

The procedural issues and mechanisms to be addressed with respect to
breaches of contract and of torts (specific ones relating to
information security may/will have to be created) and the commission of
crimes relating to information security include:

•       The competence of Community and Member State courts,
administrative bodies, tribunals, etc. to hear and rule on actions and
disputes arising from and charges relating to information security

•       The formulation of rules relating to:

-       the collection, presentation and authentication of evidence (in
any form)

-       procedure (eg service and form of writs, drafting of pleadings,
statutes of limitations, etc.)

•       The effect and application of the Brussels Convention and other
conventions and treaties

•       Jurisdictional issues such as:

-       proper forum and (geographical) jurisdiction

-       viability and legality of criminal jurisdiction

•       Territoriality

•       Mutual Assistance.

There are a number of substantive issues which fall squarely within the
goals of information security measures and regulation but which are
outside the jurisdiction of the Commission:

•       insider trading (using computerised trading and computerised
information systems)

•       pornography (using computers for definition, dissemination and
access)

•       transborder data flow (using communication networks)

•       interception (generally, as found in the telecommunications
sphere but which involves computerised components of telecommunications
systems)

•       encryption (used illegally and therefore used in contravention
of the criminal law)

•       computer crime

Because rules relating to procedural issues are detailed and by
definition require the co-operation, involvement and assent of all
parties to the legal and judicial process, the most effective way of
collecting and publishing these rules is through the construction of
codes.  In order to accommodate the different categories of rules
outlined above, model codes should be developed.

A debate involving the Member States, the judicial and administrative
bodies of the Community and other interested parties needs to take
place in order to decide if the Community can legally assume
jurisdiction over these substantive areas and if so, how that
jurisdiction will be implemented and the results enforced.

Requirements

•       Agreement on electronic evidence

•       agreement on civil procedures relating to information security
and electronic evidence

•       code on the commercial procedures relating to the use of
electronic records.

6.10.   Insurance ;Issues

Issue

Obtaining insurance coverage for purely known risks and the definition
of insurance obligations where this corresponds to the need of a
collective sharing of risks, similar to third party insurance in road
transport.

Discussion

For the public safety risks are addressed by the Insurance Industry
with the premiums calculated on the basis of the assessment of risks
reflecting past experience. For the risk associated with information
systems there are only the beginning of an extension to cover this kind
of risks. As the taking out of insurance policies is a natural, or
partial alternative to information security measures, an improved
methodology for the assessment of risks is important in adopting the
most economic and practicable solution. Of course, there are some
application areas where this approach is not or only partially
acceptable.

For certain categories of risks involving several parties one will need
to define common rules relating to situations where for security or
safety reasons insurance cover should become obligatory.

Requirements.

•       Criteria and procedures for the assessment of insurance risks

•       identification of situations which may need to be covered by an
insurance obligation as a pre-condition of service provision, operation
or usage.



7.      Spectrum of Measures to provide Information Security





7.1.    Policy Framework; and Consensus

Purpose

To provide a minimum framework for trusted information and
communications services on an international scale and to establish a
multi actor consensus on essential requirements and options for the
provision of information security and related issues.

Background

Information and its exchange via global networks is inextricably
associated with all public and private activities involving the
citizen, service providers, operators, vendors, administrations and
authorities in numerous ways for all kind of purposes. With the
increasing globalisation of the economies an agreed framework for the
protection of information either associated with intellectual property,
privacy, internal security and other legitimate reasons is needed.
While there are several conventions and recommendations, the rapid
evolution of technology and services implies the need to reflect on a
common framework which could assist countries and regions to maintain
interworking and avoid technical barriers to trade and communications
without compromising their priorities in the protection of information
assets.

Solutions for open communications between a variety of parties on a
global scale do exist. They differ in detail and convenience in usage.
However, the ability to use them depends critically on a broad
consensus on the use of one or the other option. Nationally constrained
solutions, such as DES, RSA in the USA are of little utility if they
can not be used by US business in the pursuit of their global business
interests and vice versa if others can not make use of these techniques
for their communications with US partners.

To achieve agreement and reasonably general acceptance by the users
concerned is as important as the technical performance of the solution
in question.

7.2.    International Agreements

Purpose

International agreements on a minimum set of features and operational
concepts as required for trusted and open service provision.

Background

While a common framework and general consensus may go a long way, there
is the need to get formal agreement on certain aspects. These may, for
example, relate to issues surrounding liability, accreditation and
certification and the fighting of organised crime..

7.3.    Regulation; and Legislation

Purpose

Adjustment of national regulations and legislation to permit seamless
interworking of trusted services.

Background

The provision of information security is seen to related in some areas
closely to public order and defence issues. The related national
regulations and legislations vary considerably. In order to avoid the
creation of technical barriers to trade and communications outside the
domains of internal order and national security, adjustments of
legislation and regulations may be required in some countries.

7.4.    Accreditation

7.4.1.  Accreditation of Services

Purpose

Evaluation of communication services.

Background

Common criteria for security evaluation are mainly focused on IT
products and IT systems.  However, there is a perceived need for
criteria to support the evaluation of communication services.  This
later criteria may be considered as an extension to the current
criteria or there may be a need to develop separate criteria.

The evaluation of a service and its subsequent accreditation will be a
critical requirement in many user applications, in particular those
that need to use trans-European communication services. The
consistency, completeness and effectiveness of the security
enhancements of communication services needs to be checked for an
overall fitness for purpose. Hence there is a need for a framework for
accreditation of communications services.

7.4.2.  Accreditation of TTPs

Purpose

Procedures for the accreditation and audit of TTPs.

Background

TTPs will need to interwork and communicate internationally to provide
a service infrastructure to support a range of security services such
as digital signature and confidentiality.  TTPs will thus need to
process, store and distribute a range of security-related information
for the use and management of such services. This implies the need for
a set of harmonised procedures for the accreditation and audit of TTPs
in order to ensure mutual trust by the public in TTPs and the services
they provide.

7.5.    Products and Services

Purpose

In order to facilitate a harmonious development of the provision of
security of information systems in the Community for the protection of
the public and of business interests, it will be necessary to develop a
consistent approach as to its provision of security. Where independent
organisations will have to be mandated, their functions and conditions
will need to be defined and agreed and, where required, embedded into
the regulatory framework. The objective would be to come to a clearly
defined and agreed sharing of responsibilities between the different
actors on a Community level as a prerequisite for mutual recognition.

Background

At present, the provision of security of information systems is well
organised only for specific areas and limited to addressing their
specific needs. The organisation on a European level is mostly
informal, and mutual recognition of verification and certification is
not yet established outside closed groups. With the growing importance
of the security of information systems, the need for defining a
consistent approach to the provision of security for information
systems in Europe and internationally is becoming urgent. The most
urgent needs identified relate to digital signatures and
confidentiality services.

7.6.    Common Practices; and Codes of Conduct

Objectives

Development of Codes of Practice to

•       support the development and harmonisation of sectorial
practices

•       support the development of a standardised approach to the
development of baseline controls

•       support the development and harmonisation of baseline
controls.

Background

Codes of practice are found in many industries and disciplines. They
encapsulate the collective wisdom and experience of the practitioners
of a trade or profession or of an industry. For example codes of
practice for the building trade. To the practitioners of a trade or
profession, the need for codes of practice is self evident.

Codes of practice are not always obvious because they are often given
other names. In some situations they may be called standards manuals in
others requirements specifications. The property that sets them apart
and makes them recognisable as codes of practice is the encapsulation
of collective wisdom. The collective wisdom represents the means by
which all parties to a transaction are protected from harm. In legal or
business management terms this may be called a “standard of due care.”

Any professional discipline needs to have a vehicle to encapsulate the
collective wisdom of its practitioners. They help to ensure consistency
across the wide spectrum of practitioners. That has to be true of
something as important as information processing.

We have mentioned elsewhere the move towards empowerment and
distributed systems. Empowerment means that the person responsible for
an operating unit of an enterprise is free to obtain its services and
resources anywhere. Where once information processing was done
in-house, it is now just as likely to be out-sourced.

When information was once processed centrally the computer centre was
well protected, both physically and logically. Indeed the protection of
computer centres was the trigger for the development of corporate
information security programmes. With information processing spread
throughout the enterprise, the need for a central site vanishes. With
it goes the ease of justifying the costs of high levels of security.

These two factors taken together mean that responsibility for
information security is fragmented and put in the hands of people who
have other responsibilities. Their mind set does not contain the same
awareness of the need for security. Neither do they understand the
interdependence of security and control measures.

The growth of legal, regulatory and contractual requirements for
security create the need for a generally accepted set of controls and
security measures. Words like due diligence and compliance with best
practice can be satisfied by compliance with codes of practice. They
provide the baseline needed for any comparison of actual with best
practice.

Looking to the future we can see that information processing will
become a basic skill for any skilled worker or manager. Where
industries have their own codes of practice governing the way they
operate, information security should become a sub-set.

Codes of practice must be formulated in such a way that audits can be
performed to establish compliance.

7.7.    Awareness;, Education and  Training

Purpose

Improved awareness of the issues of information security by specific
actions and a greater emphasis in the education and training of related
professions.

Background

In the end it is the human factor which decides the level of
information security, irrespective of the technical and operational
measures one may wish to deploy. In this sense awareness and the
teaching of appropriate skills in the context of the information
professions, is an important measure to be considered. This may entail
the creation of special training schemes and curricula, but most of all
the appropriate inclusion of information security related issues in the
teaching of information professions in general. This is in many cased
essential, since information security is very closely related to the
way information is used in a given context, ie often it has to be
embedded in the application and management procedure and can not be
added on as an external procedure.

7.8.    Specifications

Objectives

To develop specifications for the application of security, in order to
ensure interworking, interoperation and mutual recognition.

Background

Functional specifications for products or services are documents that
are to be used as parts of purchase specifications. They specify the
functions of a solution and the required performance characteristics.
Implementation aspects are only dealt with if they are particularly
important for the fulfilment of a specific function. Specifications
call up standards and profiles, as far as available.  Options in the
standards are resolved in specifications.

Common specifications for methodologies, eg evaluation, serve as a
basis for mutual recognition.

7.9.    Standards

Purpose

Development of standards for information security.

Background

European security standards developed over the next decade will have a
decisive influence on the technological structure of the entire
European market and will change the conditions of trade in export
markets and national markets.

The standards making infrastructure for the development of IT and
telecommunication standards has become increasingly complex. The number
of groups, the range of work items and the  overall process at
different levels of international, regional and national
standardisation is a complex maze. Security standardisation is no
exception to this situation. In general there is a reoccurring problem
which is that of coordination between groups developing standards
similar in nature and scope. Such coordination is necessary to avoid
duplication of work and the unnecessary waste of resource, and to
ensure that the standards that are developed are consistent and  they
form a coherent set.

At the European level the establishment of the Advisory Expert Group
ITAEGV has provided an ideal mechanism for the coordination of security
standards work within Europe. In addition, ITAEGV is in the process of
developing a European Memorandum, M-IT-06, which is a Taxonomy and
Directory of European Standardisation Requirements for Information
Systems Security based on market driven requirements. This memorandum
also contains a future work programme for security standardisation.

Hence Europe is now demonstrating through this action a clearly defined
strategic stance on security standardisation. One that is demonstrating
effective coordination, leadership and a market driven focused approach
to standardisation.

Traditionally the principal contributors to standards making have been
suppliers, designers and professionals. The end user of products and
services has only been peripherally interested or involved. The end
user has been concerned that standards have been used in relation to
the products he buys but not greatly interested in what they are.

There is a need for a more effective mechanism and framework through
which user interest is able to collectively express their requirements
and priorities so that they can contribute to the standardisation
process in a way which will balance the very strong interest of the
supply industry.

This mechanism should be used to provide greater user input into the
development of the European Memorandum, M-IT-06 (The Taxonomy and
Directory of European Standardisation Requirements for Information
Systems Security). This memorandum also contains a future work
programme for security standardisation.

The long-term benefits of security standardisation requires investment
by companies and users and as such they must be prepared to organise
themselves more effectively to participate in the standards making
process.

7.10.   Technology

Purpose

Systematic investigation and development of the technology to permit
economically viable and operationally satisfactory solutions to a range
of present and future requirements for the security of information
systems.

Background

Work on security of information systems would need to address
development and implementation strategies, technologies, and
integration and verification.

The strategic R&D work would have to cover conceptual models for secure
systems (secure against compromise, unauthorised modifications and
denial of service), functional requirements models, risk models and
architectures for security.

Verification and validation of the security of the technical system and
its applicability would be investigated through integration and
verification projects.

In addition to the consolidation and development of security
technology, a number of accompanying measures are required concerned
with the creation, maintenance and consistent application of standards,
and the validation and certification of IT and telecommunication
products with respect to their security properties, including
validation and certification of methods to design and implement
systems.

The fourth RD&T Community Framework Programme might be one of the tools
to foster co-operative projects at precompetitive and prenormative
levels.



8.      Cross Impact Analysis



3.      General issues

3.1.    Globalisation of the economy and mobility

	Revision of the scope and approach to information security to
	reflect the new conditions, challenges and requirements brought
	about by globalisation    ∆               ∆

	Adaptation of the respective policies and regulations
	∆       ∆

	Clearly defined conventions on the expectations,
	responsibilities, duties and liabilities, related to levels of
	security, harm, and good practices.             ∆
	∆                       ∆

3.2.    Internal market (“four freedoms”)

	Adaptation of the existing provisions with respect to their
	conformance to the internal market policy of the EC implying
	the removal of existing internal barriers and the avoidance of
	the formation of new technical barriers due to divergent
	application of security and safety rules, regulations and
	legislation  ∆               ∆

	Provision to business and the public of solutions available
	throughout the community and preferably at the international
	level respecting the “one stop” and “pay-per-use”
	principles                                   ∆

	Consistent deployment of standards and certification where
	critical for the working of the internal
	market
	∆                       ∆       ∆

	Certification and standards that reflect the needs of the
	different market
	segments
	∆

3.3.    Human rights and the protection of communications

	Common approach defining rights, responsibilities and duties of
	individuals, business and of the authorities.   ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆

3.4.    Social acceptance of identification and authentication methods

	Clarification of the ownership and privacy issues related to
	the use of biometric data  ∆       ∆       ∆               ∆

	Agreed classification of biometric data and conditions
	requiring secure handling of such data
	∆                       ∆

	Definition of the rights and responsibilities of individuals,
	business users, corporations and administrations using
	biometric techniques.              ∆       ∆

3.5.    Human rights and the safety of systems

	Community wide standard for design practices and codes of
	conduct
	∆                       ∆

	Harmonised legal environment for vendors and users of safety
	critical systems   ∆       ∆       ∆





3.6.    Confidence in communication systems and confidence in services

	Real-time indication for the user of the trustworthiness of a
	service or system                         ∆
	∆                       ∆

	Feedback mechanisms for security and safety related incidents
	involving communications
	∆                       ∆               ∆

	Independent assessment of the levels of trustworthiness being
	achieved                          ∆

	Investigation of the reasons why the security and safety of
	systems are compromised
	∆               ∆

	Understanding of the relative importance of the different
	system components and the components of the wider system and
	usage context
	∆                       ∆               ∆

	Methods/frameworks for evidence reporting
	∆                       ∆               ∆

	Role (costs, benefits) of certification in providing confidence
	and communicating this in the market
	place                                      ∆

	Establishment of agreed claim limits to establish
	assurability                  ∆               ∆

3.7.    Management of openness and protection

	Generic framework for the management of open and protected
	communications in a user/business oriented environment:
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆               ∆

	Definition of agreed security domains
	∆                                       ∆

	User interface for the management of
	openness/protection
	∆               ∆

	Objective records and procedures for the accounting of
	open/protected transactions
	∆               ∆                       ∆

3.8.    Common concerns of commercial and national security

	Common requirements of business, citizens and authorities to
	adequately protect commercial and personal information and its
	communication       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆                       ∆

3.9.    Security and law enforcement on international scale

	Effective, internationally agreed, economic, ethical and usable
	solutions to meet business, administration and personal needs
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Mechanisms for authorised interception for law enforcement
	∆       ∆       ∆               ∆
	∆               ∆

	Reporting of incidents and crimes adjusted to the conditions of
	the internal market                     ∆       ∆       ∆

	Equipment, software and an infrastructure of trusted third
	parties.
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆





3.10.   Economics of the security of information systems

	“IS-to-cost” techniques for business and private
	users.                                                 ∆
	∆       ∆               ∆

	Incorporation of good information security design practice in
	the development of products and
	services                                  ∆
	∆                               ∆

	Definition of information security as business and marketing
	factor                                             ∆       ∆

	Identification of acceptance levels for insurers, regulators
	and the commercial courts  ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆                       ∆

	Specification of duties and responsibilities of parties to the
	use of information systems and their security
	requirements       ∆       ∆       ∆                       ∆

	Security architecture and "building blocks" specifications and
	standards, with a view to minimising the cost of providing
	commonly needed levels of
	security.
	∆               ∆

3.11.   Social recognition of information crime

	Education and training on the information security requirements
	and concepts needed to operate in a secure manner in the
	information
	age                                                        ∆

	Clarification of "info-ethics" for the professional and
	individual user in its relationship to information security
	∆       ∆       ∆                       ∆       ∆

	Clarification of responsibilities of the sector actors in
	general and in their relations within each other, with
	particular reference to open and distributed applications.
	∆       ∆       ∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

3.12.   Human factors

•       Adjustment of personnel management practices and organisational
procedures to reduce the vulnerability by the actions of staff and
other people                 ∆                       ∆       ∆

	Greater use of non-technical management
	controls                                                ∆
	∆





3.13.   Safety critical environments

	Common approach to the handling of security and safety critical
	requirements                    ∆                       ∆
	∆

	Methodologies for threat, vulnerability and hazard analysis for
	the protection of information systems used in safety-critical
	environments                                      ∆
	∆       ∆               ∆       ∆

	Methodologies for the design, development and procurement of
	safety critical systems, covering project management,
	development environment, auditing of process, configuration
	management and change control
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆                       ∆

	Common approach to security evaluation of information systems
	in safety-critical
	environments.                                  ∆
	∆               ∆

	Common approach to information systems recovery in safety
	critical environments                                 ∆
	∆               ∆

3.14.   Embedding systems embedded systems security

	Methods of testing that enable standards of reliability to be
	ensured, including tests to destruction where
	appropriate                 ∆
	∆                       ∆       ∆

	Approach for the certification of safe
	products
	∆

	Definition of requirements for fail-safe system architectures
	and
	implementations
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Anti-tampering and protection specifications and
	standards.
	∆       ∆

	Quality label, that indicates the quality level of the embedded
	system                          ∆
	∆               ∆

	Awareness of designers of the potential impact of innovation in
	the validity of test
	technology.
	∆                       ∆

4.      Demand related issuesissues (related to demand)

4.1.    Requirements for enterprises and individuals

4.1.1.  Agreement on security requirements for enterprises

	Taxonomy and directory of business user requirements and
	security objectives derived from experience with practical
	applications.
	∆       ∆





4.1.2.  Security administration

	Guidelines for establishment of security administration
	function.                                               ∆
	∆

	Recommendation on moving towards commonality of laws on data
	privacy and protection, particularly relating to
	individuals.      ∆       ∆       ∆                       ∆

	Means to provide increased awareness and relevant education and
	training.
	∆

	Guidelines for consideration of balanced security, taking
	account of level of risk in different areas (physical,
	personnel, hardware, software, data,
	etc.)                                             ∆

4.1.3.  Security objectives for enterprises

	Standard techniques for drawing-up security policies for
	typical situations
	∆               ∆

	Methods and techniques for agreeing levels of security and
	security objectives.
	∆               ∆

4.1.4.  Exploiting  security and innovation

	Assessment methods for the impact of changes on
	systems                                         ∆
	∆               ∆

	Procedural and regulatory framework needs to address
	convergence of safety and security etc. (implications for
	standards)       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Methods for identifying early on where innovations are likely
	to be unacceptable from a safety perspective or will result in
	such economic penalties that they are not viable
	commercially.
	∆                               ∆               ∆

4.1.5.  Sectoral specifics

	Consolidation and development of a set of codes of practice and
	baseline controls addressing specific business sector
	requirements.
	∆                               ∆

4.1.6.  Security domains

	Mechanisms for management of policies, procedures and controls
	between domains for TTPs
	∆               ∆                               ∆

	Generation of guidelines for domain creation, management and
	control                            ∆
	∆               ∆       ∆

	Development of a common framework for domain
	interworking
	∆                       ∆       ∆

	Agreement on management, TTPs, accreditation, auditing and
	relations with law enforcement agencies.     ∆       ∆
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆





4.1.7.  Security labelling

	Guidelines for security
	labelling.
	∆                       ∆

	Standard on how to express labels and on the meanings of a
	basic set of information
	labels.
	∆

	Codes of practice and accreditation methods for domains
	claiming to support standard labels, and their mutual
	recognition.                                              ∆

4.1.8.  Administration of access to security related data

	Easy to use tools for access right management and key
	management.
	∆                               ∆       ∆

	Secure solutions for remote
	administration.
	∆                       ∆

	Awareness for control issues concerning security related data;
	and implications of non-action.
	∆               ∆               ∆

4.1.9.  Security requirements for individual users

	User profiles identifying standard types of users together with
	typical
	requirements.
	∆

4.2.    Requirements for security functions

4.2.1.  Access control

	Group access control scenarios and schemes based on levels of
	commonality                               ∆       ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Techniques, products, specifications and standards addressing
	access control matched to the scenarios
	identified
	∆       ∆

	Parameters common to most or all of the above techniques,
	products, specifications and standards and the feasibility of
	establishing common formats for
	them
	∆

	Identification of the key features for coherence in the
	supporting infrastructure
	∆

	Basic access control mechanisms for pilot
	implementation.
	∆       ∆

	Develop delegation
	scenarios.                                           ∆
	∆       ∆

	Identification of techniques, products, specifications and
	standards addressing delegation and their association with the
	identified scenarios.
	∆       ∆       ∆

4.2.2.  Requirements for electronic cash

	Agreement on the concepts underlying electronic
	cash
	∆       ∆       ∆

	International
	standards.
	∆





4.2.3.  Requirements for security services

	Scenarios for the use of electronic security
	services                                           ∆

	User specifications for electronic security
	services
	∆               ∆

	Establishment of international application rules that can
	operate under the different legal frameworks and that ensure
	international communicability    ∆       ∆       ∆

	Identification of different scenarios where it is appropriate
	for the public interest to mask or hide the identity of the end
	user, taking into account the balance between full anonymity
	and audit.                   ∆
	∆       ∆

4.2.4.  Digital signature

4.2.4.1.        The individual .I.Right to signature

	Clarification of the right to signature and the attached
	entitlement.   ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆

4.2.4.2.        Consistency of .I.Legal principles for digital
signatures

	EC-wide/international agreement on the legal functions of
	signatures    ∆       ∆       ∆                       ∆

	Clarification of the conditions of acceptance of the authority
	of an digital signature, e.g. For legally binding purposes,
	i.e.. As substitute for hand-written original
	signatures.            ∆       ∆       ∆               ∆
	∆       ∆

	Recommendation for the implementation for a public digital
	signature scheme for use by business, administrations and the
	general public.        ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆       ∆

	Legislative rules and, where appropriate, liabilities, for
	keys, certificates and TTPs to cover revocation of any or all
	the entities involved in the “chain of proof” needed in the
	signature technique.                       ∆

4.2.4.3.        .I.Universal acceptance of digital signatures

	Development, together with the legal profession, of
	recommendations for the practical use of digital signatures as
	a full equivalent to hand-written signatures in legal
	transactions   ∆       ∆       ∆

	Demonstration, through pilot projects, that digital signatures
	can be used as equivalent to hand-written
	signatures                                     ∆

	Inclusion in the curriculum of relevant educational institutes
	(eg engineering, law and business schools) the use of digital
	signature.                                                 ∆





4.2.5.  Privacy Enhancement

4.2.5.1.        Perception of Requirements for Privacy Enhancement

	Frameworks and architectures which are accepted as well by the
	business users as by the national security agencies and the
	service providers                    ∆
	∆               ∆

	Standards for services and service
	provision
	∆

	Compatibility of confidentiality services with existing
	communication standards and practices where
	possible
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

	Verification of practicability of proposed solutions through
	suitable pilot
	projects
	∆               ∆               ∆

	Model contracts for confidentiality services
	∆       ∆               ∆

	Awareness improvement of sector actors of the potential losses
	due to the absence of confidentiality
	services.                                                  ∆

4.2.5.2.        The case for the .I.Provision of public confidentiality
services

	Architectures that minimises service
	vulnerability                              ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Framework for the provision of trans-domain confidentiality
	services                    ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆

	Guidelines for pan-European confidentiality service providers
	(including accountability)        ∆       ∆
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Model contract for relationship between service providers
	across national boundaries
	∆                       ∆

	Assurance criteria for service providers and
	operators                                          ∆
	∆       ∆

	Accreditation process for mutual
	recognition.                           ∆

4.2.6.  Use of names and certification of credentials

	Guidelines covering the use of names.
	∆               ∆                       ∆               ∆

	Guidelines covering the use of certificates.
	∆       ∆               ∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

4.2.7.  Security of electronically stored  information

	Common approach to the security of electronically stored
	information            ∆       ∆       ∆               ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Unforgeable secure storage
	∆                       ∆               ∆       ∆       ∆





4.3.    Requirements for the safety of communication systems

	Platform for a dialogue on risk including users, regulators,
	vendors and service
	providers
	∆

	Policy on risk management on a societal level based on
	objective risk assessment methods        ∆       ∆       ∆

	Techniques that permit an integrated approach to the different
	types of risk (safety, security, commercial?, Direct,
	indirect)
	∆               ∆

4.4.    Requirements for evaluations

4.4.1.  Trustworthiness of communication solutions

	International agreement on criteria and evaluation methods, and
	mutual recognition of test results              ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆               ∆       ∆

	Clarification of the commercial value of “certified products”,
	e.g. In terms of liability
	limitation                                            ∆       ∆

	Clarification of the status and implied liability of vendor
	declarations                                ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆

	International agreement on the methods for evaluating security
	and safety critical system development processes, and the
	qualifications and experience needed for individuals that are
	involved in these processes.
	∆                               ∆               ∆       ∆

4.4.2.  Motivation to acquire evaluated solutions

	Rapid adoption of common
	criteria
	∆

	Agreement on common evaluation
	method
	∆               ∆

	Portability of test results and mutual
	recognition                      ∆
	∆               ∆       ∆

	Work-sharing between vendors, test centres and users to speed
	up the evaluation
	process                                         ∆
	∆       ∆

	Establishment of the “value-added” for the use by
	administrations and business, e.g. In terms of liability
	protection                                                   ∆

4.4.3.  Consistency of procurement practices

	Identification of categories of application requiring evaluated
	solutions                       ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆

	Alignment of national procurement policies concerning evaluated
	products        ∆               ∆       ∆               ∆

	Development of guidelines on applicability of evaluation
	levels                                         ∆
	∆       ∆





4.5.    Requirements for security and safety methodologies

4.5.1.  Risk analysis and management

	Consideration of the "claims structure" as a standard mechanism
	for specification of requirements, evaluation  and the
	selection of risk analysis and management
	methods                                                ∆
	∆       ∆

	Evaluation of the "claims structure" for applicability in the
	safety domain
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Support for the "claims structure" as an international
	standard
	∆

	Further evaluation of methods using the "claims
	structure"                                              ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Accreditation of organisations to conduct risk analysis and
	management method evaluations.
	∆                               ∆

4.5.2.  Metrics for Loss Assessment

	Mapping of certified product features to specific security
	incidents
	∆               ∆

	common, product independent risk analysis
	processes.
	∆                               ∆

4.5.3.  Technology assessment

	Identification of the information security issues may be solved
	within the Technology Assessment
	process
	∆                               ∆

	Technology Assessment pilot in Europe in the field of
	information security to assess the consequences for future
	information security applications and provide options for
	political and legal
	actions.
	∆                       ∆       ∆

4.5.4.  Analysis of audit trails

	Rules and regulations for the design, handling & exploitation
	of audit trail information, in conformance with
	right-of-privacy laws and practices.
	∆                       ∆               ∆               ∆

	Prevention of audit data base compromise (e.g. Techniques of
	separation of
	information)
	∆               ∆               ∆

	Services for the independent acquisition, management, and/or
	analysis of audit trails
	∆       ∆

	Development of innovative technologies (AI-based) for the
	exploitation of large audit
	trails).
	∆

4.5.5.  Safety specific methodologies

	Software engineering processes and techniques for safety
	applications including their application and
	evaluation
	∆

	Understand the special needs for engineering safe
	systems
	∆





4.6.    Requirements for audits

	Guidelines for audit review of information security
	activities                                          ∆
	∆               ∆

	Audit tools to enable reviews of security implementations and
	identify weaknesses (eg using artificial
	intelligence)
	∆                               ∆

	Guidelines on reviewing any or all security
	changes                                             ∆
	∆               ∆

	Suitable and consistent level of competence for security
	auditors and organisations to be accepted throughout the
	Community     ∆               ∆       ∆               ∆

	Greater commonality of formats for audit trails, so that they
	can be used between
	systems.                                              ∆

	Mechanisms to enable qualified auditors to be involved in
	system development
	∆       ∆

4.7.    Information valuation of information

	Development of common practices for information valuation

						∆       ∆
						∆       ∆

	Assessment of current methods of information
	valuation
	∆                               ∆

	Definition of the rights and duties of information
	ownership                    ∆

	Development of guidance for owners of information to avoid
	negligence charges with regard to the protection of their
	assets.                    ∆                       ∆
	∆       ∆

5.      Supply related issues

5.1.    Supply related issues - ways to meet the security demands

5.1.1.  Security services

	Harmonisation of legislation on the legal status of evidence
	generated by any TTPs and especially on the intra- and extra-
	community recognition thereof.       ∆
	∆                       ∆       ∆

	Litigation services based on existing international bodies such
	as the international chamber of commerce        ∆
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Techniques for the establishment, handling and recording of
	electronic negotiable
	documents.                                            ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Date and time stamping for time-critical transactions and
	applications, including a range of granularities of
	timing.                                   ∆
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

	International harmonisation of rules and services for time
	stamping, with the objective of achieving general recognition
	and acceptance of time stamps and their provision by suitably
	accredited service
	providers.                                    ∆
	∆               ∆               ∆





5.1.2.  Signature schemes

	Specifications and standards for an international signature
	scheme

	Specifications and standards for the integration of the
	sigature schemes into practical applications

	General application programming interface (API) for the
	integration of signature schemes into applications . This
	should include codes which explain the purpose of the applied
	signature.

	Development of transaction-oriented multiple signature
	schemes                  ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆               ∆

	Licensing of cryptographic algorithms.                  ∆
	∆       ∆                               ∆       ∆

5.1.3.  Confidentiality schemes

	Consensus on the principles of confidentiality services for use
	by individuals, enterprises and administrations ∆       ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆                       ∆               ∆

	Trustworthy confidentiality scheme and its supporting
	administration.                   ∆       ∆       ∆

5.2.    Supply related issues - security management

5.2.1.  Role of trusted third parties (TTPs)

	Establishment of international framework for the operation of
	TTPs.     ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆                               ∆

	Setting up of conditions for the operation of TTPs in the EC
	adapted to meeting the needs  of national and international
	users. ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

5.2.2.  Key usage

	Standards and profiles in particular to support and improve
	CCITT
	X.509.
	∆       ∆

5.2.3.  Key management service

	Single digital signature mechanism and specifications,
	preferably consistent with other leading
	countries
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Adoption of a confidentiality algorithm standard and
	specification, and a key distribution mechanism based on an
	asymmetric public key algorithm                        ∆
	∆       ∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Establishment of "domain assurance" levels and criteria for
	TTPs to use for confidentiality key management
	purposes                     ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆

	Codes of practice for TTPs engaged in key management
	activities, and the provision of escrow services and the
	methods by which those codes of practice would be
	audited                 ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆

	Set of criteria for mutual recognition between TTPs acting on
	behalf of organisations who wish to communicate securely.
	Merging of signature directories and secure inter-domain
	communications are fundamental issues.
	∆               ∆               ∆       ∆





5.2.4.  Distributed-secret escrow systemsescrow systems

	Investigation and configuration of an escrow systems adapted to
	European needs  ∆               ∆
	∆                       ∆               ∆

5.2.5.  Management services for names and management services for
credentials

	Provision of Management Services for Names and Credentials, to
	include identity, name information, and credentials such as
	public keys or any signature-verification data       ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Interoperability specifications and standards for names and
	credentials
	∆               ∆       ∆

	International harmonisation of legislation, rules and
	regulations for Management Services for Names and
	Credentials.            ∆       ∆               ∆

5.2.6.  The  management of TTPs

5.2.6.1.        Operating principles of TTPs

	Harmonised legislation to provide an appropriate framework for
	arbitration, supervision and litigation
	∆                       ∆

	Model for TTPs meeting the requirements of users and
	authorities.                       ∆               ∆       ∆

	Baseline for accepted good practice including a study of the
	level of availability, privacy and security required for the
	TTP by the final users and how much they are ready to pay for
	it                                              ∆

	Definition of quality of service, including availability,
	confidentiality, response-time, rules of disclosure to law
	enforcement
	agencies
	∆               ∆       ∆

	Operational guidelines, including descriptions of minimum set
	of services and standards to conform
	to
	∆                               ∆

	Standard clauses for the contract between the TTP and the user,
	concerning the liability of the
	TTP.
	∆                       ∆

5.2.6.2.        Interworking of TTPs

	Generation of guidelines for domain creation, management and
	control                                    ∆
	∆               ∆

	Common framework for domain
	interworking                                        ∆
	∆               ∆

	Agreement on management, TTPs, accreditation, auditing and
	relations with law enforcement
	agencies.                                     ∆
	∆               ∆





5.2.6.3.        .I.Interworking of autonomous confidentiality services

	Minimum requirements to ensure interoperability, including
	standards, specifications, rules of procedure and operating
	practices                                        ∆
	∆               ∆       ∆

	Demonstration of trans-European confidentiality services using
	a suitable application , e.g. the realisation of administrative
	telematics applications.                                 ∆

5.2.6.4.        .I.Accreditation of ttps ;and .I.Audit of TTPs; .I.Ttps
(accreditation of, audit of)

	Development of international guidelines for the accreditation
	and audit of TTPs         ∆               ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆

	Adaptation of applicable legislation or regulations to provide
	an appropriate legal framework for use throughout the community
	and in the relations with third countries.
	∆       ∆

5.3.    Supply related issues - evaluation of trusted solutions

5.3.1.  Evaluation of products, systems, services and applications

	Commitment of management to the security function within
	enterprises
	∆

	Establishment of common definitions for the different
	evaluation
	options                                                ∆
	∆

	Community and international standards for criteria and
	methodology
	∆

	Choice in the access to independent evaluation
	facilities.
	∆

5.3.2.  International harmonisation and international mutual
recognition

	Establishment of conditions and procedures for mutual
	recognition of evaluations
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Establishment of conditions and procedures for
	EC-wide/international evaluations
	∆                       ∆       ∆               ∆

	International and EC standardisation of evaluation criteria and
	methods.                ∆                       ∆
	∆                       ∆

5.3.3.  Vendor declarations

	Agreed definition of scope and liabilities of vendor
	declarations                       ∆       ∆       ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Incorporation of vendor declarations in the ITSEC/ITSEM
	evaluation
	scheme
	∆       ∆

	Specification of the types of systems which should not
	incorporate products covered by vendor
	declarations.                             ∆               ∆





5.3.4.  Self-evaluation

	Extension of the ITSEC/ITSEM evaluation criteria to include
	self-evaluation
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

5.3.5.  Evaluation of applications

	Methods for evaluations to cover services and
	applications.                                     ∆
	∆                               ∆

5.3.6.  Evaluation of communication services

	Evaluation of communications hardware and infrastructure
	security
	features
	∆       ∆

	Formal accreditation scheme for secure communication
	services                           ∆

	Accreditation guidelines for the telecommunication
	sector                               ∆               ∆

	Trial service evaluations for existing telecommunication
	services                                       ∆
	∆       ∆               ∆

	Articulation of the requirements of service
	evaluation.
	∆                       ∆

5.3.7.  Trusted network management

	Methods for network management
	evaluation
	∆                               ∆

	Definition of functionality classes (or protection profiles)
	suitable for systems, products and services used in network
	management systems

	Accreditation guidelines for the trusted network
	management                             ∆
	∆       ∆

	Trial evaluations for existing network management
	systems.                                      ∆
	∆               ∆               ∆

5.3.8.  Evaluation of methods and tools

	Guidelines for the evaluation of methods and tools used to
	develop trusted products, systems and
	services
	∆               ∆       ∆

	Register of methods and tools which can be used to develop
	trusted solutions.
	∆               ∆

5.3.9.  Physical and procedural issues

	Guidelines for physical and procedural measures required to
	maintain trusted
	systems.
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

5.3.10. Modifications to evaluated products and re-evaluation

	Definition of rules and procedures for re-evaluation based on
	methods currently used
	∆       ∆               ∆       ∆

	Alignment of the design process with the principles of
	re-evaluation, “design-for-change”.





5.3.11. Performance reporting for trusted products

	Incident reporting system for certification
	bodies                                              ∆       ∆

	User and supplier obligations to report
	incidents                       ∆                       ∆

	Supplier obligations to take corrective action and to initiate
	re-evaluation                    ∆                       ∆

	Register of evaluated product and their
	owners.                         ∆                       ∆

5.3.12. Rationalisation of evaluations

	Alignment of security evaluation criteria and methods with
	those for quality and safety, where
	sensible                                         ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Portability of results between quality, safety and security
	evaluations.
	∆               ∆       ∆       ∆

5.4.    Maintenance of safety and assurance

	Approach for tracking the evolution of systems and identifying
	when significant changes to safety and security requirements
	are taking place
	∆       ∆       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Strategies and techniques for re engineering of obsolete
	systems.
	∆               ∆               ∆

5.5.    Technological change

	Incorporation of information security requirements into R&D and
	engineering of new systems, services and
	applications
	∆       ∆       ∆

	Information security technology for multi-media and other
	advanced services and
	applications
	∆       ∆       ∆

6.      Rights,  responsibilities and liabilities liability

6.1.    Legal framework

	Glossary of concepts and
	terms                                          ∆
	∆       ∆

	Model for the evolution of protection of and economic rights
	deriving from electronic data and
	information
	∆       ∆

6.2.    Data held in electronic form

	Identification, categorisation and analysis of existing
	(current) rules and laws dealing with data held in electronic
	form      ∆       ∆       ∆               ∆       ∆

	Definition of the dependent and consequent legal relationships,
	obligations and liabilities .I.Liability;for each of the
	characteristics (differences) in the context of information
	systems security.                  ∆                       ∆





6.3.    Environment

	Re-examination in the context of information security rights,
	responsibilities and liabilities .I.Liability;of the management
	of information systems security within organisations and
	organisations' relationships with third party providers of
	information security (and related) services   ∆       ∆
	∆       ∆               ∆

	Models to introduce certainty and consistency with respect to
	legal obligations for owners, directors, managers and
	employees, consultants, contractors, trusted third parties,
	auditors and lawyers                    ∆       ∆
	∆

	Model clauses relating to information security which can be
	included in contracts or other agreements in place between
	parties.                                         ∆
	∆       ∆

	An understanding of the rights, responsibilities and
	obligations which underpin and define the relationship between
	information security and the political environment
	requires:                       ∆               ∆       ∆
	∆

	Examination of the context in which governments collect and
	process data                        ∆
	∆               ∆

	Review of the role of information in investigatory activities
	and in ensuring the public order. ∆       ∆
	∆               ∆       ∆

	Resolution of the conflict between supra-national government
	objectives and national governmental objectives with respect to
	data collection, processing, transmission and storage,
	etc.        ∆       ∆       ∆               ∆       ∆

6.4.    Interaction and relationships between private parties

	Identification of the economic stakes and benefits will be
	required in order to ascertain what interests need to be
	protected, regulated and redressed if and when something goes
	wrong.                                                ∆       ∆

6.5.    Harm

	Comprehensive list of the common and extraordinary threats
	which endanger electronic
	communication.
	∆       ∆

6.6.    Eliminating harmor mitigating harm

	Threat analysis so as to be able to identify, develop and
	implement new legal remedies to deflect
	harm                                          ∆       ∆

	Re-examination of the applicability and suitability of existing
	legislation to the mitigation of harm.          ∆
	∆                       ∆





6.7.    Legal restrictions affecting technical solutions

	Identification of any real dangers which could exist where
	confidentiality measures are
	used                                    ∆       ∆       ∆

	balance illegal against valid use and extract those uses for
	and conditions under which the balance militates in favour of
	valid use.   ∆                               ∆       ∆       ∆

6.8.    Limitation of liability

6.8.1.  Liability  management

	Recommendations for liability limiting
	measures                                 ∆       ∆

6.8.2.  .Information security audit

	Framework for the monitoring of compliance to regulations,
	recommendations and good practices.                  ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆

6.9.    Procedural jurisdictional issues

	Agreement on electronic evidence
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Agreement on civil procedures relating to information security
	and electronic evidence
	∆                       ∆       ∆       ∆

	Code on the commercial procedures relating to the use of
	electronic records                     ∆
	∆       ∆       ∆

6.10.   Insurance issues

	Criteria and procedures for the assessment of insurance
	risks                                           ∆       ∆
	∆

	Identification of situations which may need to be covered by an
	insurance obligation as a pre-condition of service provision,
	operation or
	usage.                                               ∆
	∆       ∆





Annex: Recalling the Action Lines; from the Council mandate

Action line I - Development of a strategic framework for the security
of information systems

Issue

Security of information systems is recognised as a pervasive quality
necessary in modern society. Electronic information services need a
secure telecommunications infrastructure, secure hard- and software as
well as secure usage and management. An overall strategy, considering
all aspects of security of information systems, needs to be
established, avoiding a fragmented approach. Any strategy for the
security of information processed in an electronic form must reflect
the wish of any society to operate effectively yet protect itself in a
rapidly changing world.

Objective

A strategically oriented framework has to be established to reconcile
social, economic and political objectives with technical, operational
and legislative options for the Community in an international context.
The sensitive balance between different concerns, objectives and
constraints are to be found by sector actors working together in the
development of a common perception and agreed strategy framework. These
are the are the prerequisites for reconciling interests and needs both
in policy-making and in industrial developments.

Status and trends

The situation is characterised by growing awareness of the need to act.
However, in the absence of an initiative to co-ordinate efforts, it
seems very likely that dispersed efforts various sectors will create a
situation which will de facto be contradictory, creating progressively
more serious legal, social and economic problems.

Requirements, options and priorities

Such a shared framework would need to address and situate risk analysis
and risk management concerning the vulnerability of information and
related services, the alignment of laws and regulations associated with
computer/telecommunications abuse and misuse, administrative
infrastructures including security policies, and how these may be
effectively implemented by various industries/disciplines, and social
and privacy concerns (eg the application of identification,
authentication, non-repudiation and possibly authorisation schemes in a
democratic environment ).

Clear guidance is to be provided for the development of physical and
logical architectures for secure distributed information services,
standards, guidelines and definitions for assured security products and
services, pilots and prototypes to establish the viability of various
administrative structures, architectures and standards related to the
needs of specific sectors.

Security awareness must be created in order to influence the attitude
of the users towards an increased concern about security in information
technology (IT).

Action line II - Identification of user and service provider
requirements for the security of information systems

Issues

Security of information systems is the inherent prerequisite for the
integrity and trustworthiness of business applications, intellectual
property and confidentiality. This leads inevitably to a difficult
balance and sometimes choices, between a commitment to free trade and a
commitment to securing privacy and intellectual property. These choices
and compromises need to be based on a full appreciation of requirements
and the impact of possible options for the security of information
systems to respond to them.

User requirements imply the security functionalities of information
systems interdependent with technological, operational and regulatory
aspects. Therefore, a systematic investigation of security requirements
for information systems forms an essential part of the development of
appropriate and effective measures.

Objective

Establishing the nature and characteristics of requirements of users
and service providers and their relation to security measures of
information systems.

Status and trends

Hitherto, no concerted effort has been undertaken to identify the
rapidly evolving and changing requirements of the major actors for the
security of information systems. Member States of the Community have
identified the requirements for harmonisation of national activities
(especially of the “IT security evaluation criteria”). Uniform
evaluation criteria and rules for mutual recognition of evaluation
certification are of major importance.

Requirements, options and priorities

As a basis for a consistent and transparent treatment of the justified
needs of the sector actors, it is considered necessary to develop an
agreed classification of user requirements and its relation to the
provision of security in information systems.

It is also considered important to identify requirements for
legislation, regulations and codes of practice in the light of an
assessment of trends in service characteristics and technology, to
identify alternative strategies for meeting the objectives by
administrative, service, operational and technical provisions, and to
assess the effectiveness, user friendliness and costs of alternative
security options and strategies for information systems for users,
service providers and operators.

Action Line III - Solutions for immediate and interim needs of users,
suppliers and service providers

Issues

At present it is possible to protect adequately computers from
unauthorised access from the outside world by “isolation”, ie by
supplying conventional organisational and physical measures. This
applies also to electronic communications within closed user group
operating on a dedicated network. The situation is very different if
the information is shared between user groups or exchanged via a
public, or generally accessible, network. Neither the technology,
terminals and services nor the related standards and procedures are
generally available to provide comparable security for information
systems in these cases.

Objectives

The objective has to be to provide, at short notice, solutions which
can respond to the most urgent needs of users, service providers and
manufacturers. This includes the use of common IT-security evaluation
criteria. These should be conceived as open towards future requirements
and solutions.

Status and trends

Some user groups have developed techniques and procedures for their
specific use responding, in particular, to the need for authentication,
integrity and non-repudiation. In general, magnetic cards or smart
cards are being used. Some are using more or less sophisticated
cryptographic techniques. Often this implied the definition of
user-group specific “authorities”. However, it is difficult to
generalise these techniques and methods to meet the needs of an open
environment.

ISO is working on OSI Information System Security (ISO DIS 7498-2) and
CCITT in the context of X400. It is also possible to insert security
segments into the messages. Authentication, integrity and
non-repudiation are being addressed as part of the messages (EDIFACT)
as well as part of the X400 MHS.

At present, the Electronic Data Interchange (EDI) legal framework is
still at the stage of conception. The International Chamber of Commerce
has published uniform rules of conduct for the exchange of commercial
data via telecommunications networks.

Several countries (eg Germany, France, the United Kingdom and the
United States) have developed, or are developing, criteria to evaluate
the trustworthiness of IT and telecommunication products and systems
and the corresponding procedures for conducting evaluations. These
criteria have been co-ordinated with the national manufacturers and
will lead to an increasing number of reliable products and systems
starting with simple products. The establishment of national
organisations which will conduct evaluations and offer certificates
will support this trend.

Confidentiality provision is considered by most users as less
immediately important. In the future, however, this situation is likely
to change as advanced communication services and, in particular, mobile
services will have become all-pervasive.

Requirements, options and priorities

It is essential to develop as soon as possible the procedures,
standards, products and tools suited to assure security both in
information systems as such (computers, peripherals) and in public
communications networks. A high priority should be given to
authentication, integrity and non-repudiation. Pilot projects should be
carried out to establish the validity of the proposed solutions.
Solutions to priority needs on EDI are looked at in the TEDIS programme
within the more general content of this action plan.

Action line IV - Development of specifications, standardisation,
evaluation and certification in respect of the security of information
systems

Issues

Requirements for the security of information systems are pervasive and
as such common specifications and standards are crucial. The absence of
agreed standards and specifications for IT security may present a major
barrier to the advance of information-based processes and services
throughout the economy and society. Actions are also required to
accelerate the development and use of technology and standards in
several related communication and computer network areas that are of
critical importance to users, industry and administrations.

Objective

Efforts are required to provide a means of supporting and performing
specific security functions in the general areas of OSI, ONP, ISDN/IBC
and network management. Inherently related to standardisation and
specification are the techniques and approaches required for
verification, including certification leading to mutual recognition.
Where possible, internationally agreed solutions are to be supported.
The development and use of computer systems with security functions
should also be encouraged.

Status and trends

The United States, in particular, has taken major initiatives to
address the security of information systems. In Europe the subject is
treated in the context of IT and telecommunications standardisation in
the context of ETSI and CEN/CENELEC in preparation of CCITT and ISO
work in the field.

In view of growing concern, the work in the United States is rapidly
intensifying and both vendors and service providers are increasing
their efforts in this area In Europe, France, Germany and the United
Kingdom have independently started similar activities, but a common
effort corresponding to the United States is evolving only slowly.

Requirements, options and priorities

In the security of information systems there is inherently a very close
relationship between regulatory, operational, administrative and
technical aspects. Regulations need to be reflected in standards, and
provisions for the security of information systems need to comply in a
verifiable manner to the standards and regulations. In several aspects,
regulations require specifications which go beyond the conventional
scope of standardisation, ie include codes of practice. Requirements
for standards and codes of practice are present in all areas of
security of information systems, and a distinction has to be made
between the protection requirements which correspond to the security
objectives and some of the technical requirements which can be
entrusted to the competent European standards bodies (CEN/CENELEC/
ETSI).

Specifications and standards must cover the subjects of security
services of information systems (personal and enterprise
authentication, non-repudiation protocols, legally acceptable
electronic proof, authorisation control), their communication services
(image communication privacy, mobile communications voice and data
privacy, data and image data-base protection, integrated services
security), their communication and security management (public/private
key system for open network operation, network management protection,
service provider protection) and their certification (assurance
criteria and levels, security assurance procedures for secure
information systems).

Action line V - Technological and operational developments in the
security of information systems

Issues

Systematic investigation and development of the technology to permit
economically viable and operationally satisfactory solutions to a range
of present and future requirements for the security of information
systems is a prerequisite for the development of the services market
and the competitiveness of the European economy as a whole.

Any technological developments in the security of information systems
will have to include both the aspects of computer security and security
of communications as most present-day systems are distributed systems,
and access to such systems is through communications services.

Objective

Systematic investigation and development of the technology to permit
economically viable and operationally satisfactory solutions to a range
of present and future requirements for the security of information
systems.

Requirements, options and priorities

Work on security of information systems would need to address
development and implementation strategies, technologies, and
integration and verification.

The strategic R&D work would have to cover conceptual models for secure
systems (secure against compromise, unauthorised modifications and
denial of service), functional requirements models, risk models and
architectures for security.

The technology-oriented R&D work would have to include user and message
authentication (eg through voice-analysis and electronic signatures),
technical interfaces and protocols for encryption, access control
mechanisms and implementation methods for provable secure systems.

Verification and validation of the security of the technical system and
its applicability would be investigated through integration and
verification projects.

In addition to the consolidation and development of security
technology, a number of accompanying measures are required concerned
with the creation, maintenance and consistent application of standards,
and the validation and certification of IT and telecommunication
products with respect to their security properties, including
validation and certification of methods to design and implement
systems.

The third RD&T Community Framework Programme might be used to foster
co-operative projects at precompetitive and prenormative levels.

Action line VI - Provision of security of information systems

Issues

Depending on the exact nature of the security features of information
systems, the required functions will need to be incorporated at
different parts of the information system including
terminals/computers, services, network management to cryptographic
devices, smart cards, public and private keys, etc. Some of these can
be expected to be embedded in the hardware or software provided by
vendors, while others may be part of distributed systems (eg network
management), in the possession of the individual user (eg smart cards)
or provided from a specialised organisation (e. g. public/private
keys).

Most of the security products and services can be expected to be
provided by vendors, service providers or operators. For specific
functions, eg the provision of public/private keys, auditing
authorisation, there may be the need to identify and mandate
appropriate organisations.

The same applies for certification, evaluation and verification of
quality of service which are functions which need to be addressed by
organisations independent of the interests of vendors, service
providers or operators. These organisations could be private,
governmental or licensed by government to perform delegated functions.

Objective

In order to facilitate a harmonious development of the provision of
security of information systems in the Community for the protection of
the public and of business interests, it will be necessary to develop a
consistent approach as to its provision of security. Where independent
organisations will have to be mandated, their functions and conditions
will need to be defined and agreed and, where required, embedded into
the regulatory framework. The objective would be to come to a clearly
defined and agreed sharing of responsibilities between the different
actors on a Community level as a prerequisite for mutual recognition.

Status and trends

At present, the provision of security of information systems is well
organised only for specific areas and limited to addressing their
specific needs. The organisation on a European level is mostly
informal, and mutual recognition of verification and certification is
not yet established outside closed groups. With the growing importance
of the security of information systems, the need for defining a
consistent approach to the provision of security for information
systems in Europe and internationally is becoming urgent.

Requirements, options and priorities

Because of the number of different actors concerned and the close
relations to regulatory and legislative questions, it is particularly
important to pre-agree on the principles which should govern the
provision of the security of information systems.

In developing a consistent approach to this question, one will need to
address the aspects of identification and specification of functions
requiring, by their very nature, the availability of some independent
organisations (or interworking organisations). This could include
functions such as the administration of a public/private key system.

In addition, it is required to identify and specify, at an early stage,
the functions which in the public interest need to be entrusted to
independent organisations (or interworking organisations). This could,
for example, include auditing, quality assurance, verification,
certification and similar functions.



Appendix A:     References

•       EEC Report "Security in Open Networks", SOGITS Document Nr. 303

•       CEN/CENELEC Workshop on Security Aspects of OSI Functional
Standards, October 1992.ISO/IEC JTC1/SC18 "User Requirements for
Security in TOS", Jan 1990.

•       CCITT 1990 X.400 Series of Recommendations, "Message Handling
System"

•       CCITT 1991 X.509 Directory System Authentication Framework

•       ISO 7498-2 (CCITT X.800) "OSI Security Architecture"

•       ISO/IEC/CCITT Open Systems Security Frameworks, November 1992

-       Frameworks Overview

-       Authentication Framework

-       Access Control Framework

-       Non-repudiation Framework

-       Integrity Framework

-       Confidentiality Framework

-       Security Audit Framework

•       Trusted Computer Systems Evaluation Criteria, DoD 5200,28-STD,
Department of Defense, United States of America, December 1990.

•       Information Technology Security Evaluation Criteria (ITSEC),
Harmonised Criteria of France, Germany, the Netherlands, the United
Kingdom, Version 1.2, June 1992.

•       NIST Special Publication 500-160 "Report of the International
Workshop on Integrity Policy in Computer Information Systems", January
1991.

•       ETSI/EWOS X. 400 Functional Profile A/3311

•       Council Decision concerning the Community Programme in the
field of telecommunications technologies - Research and Development in
Advanced Communications Technologies in Europe (RACE) - 88/28/EC, Dec.
1987

•       Council Decision concerning the European Strategic Programme
for Research and Development in IT (ESPRIT) - 88/279/EC, Dec. 1987.

•       Communication from the Commission to the Council on Trade EDI
Systems (TEDIS) COM (86)/662, Dec. 1986.

•       Federal Criteria for Information Technology Security, Volume
II, Version 1.0, Dec. 1992, NIST.

•       Information Security INFOSEC 92 - Security Investigations,
CEC/DGXIII/F/GE1190/GI, Jan 1992.

•       Information Security INFOSEC 93 - Security Investigations,
CEC/DGXIII/F/IN933448, July 1993.

•       IT Security Evaluation Manual - ITSEM,
CEC/DGXIII/B/243/93-EN.,Version 1.0, September 1993.

•       Minimum Security Functionality Requirements for Multi-User
Operating Systems, NIST, Computer Security Division, Issue 1, January
1992.

•       Scope of the Federal Criteria Project, Joint NIST/NSA
Statement, January, 1992

•       The Canadian Trusted Computer Product Evaluation Criteria,
Canadian System Security Centre, January 1993



Appendix B:     Abbreviations





ABS     Automated Breaking System

AI      Artificial Intelligence

AMHS    Automated Message Handling System

API     Application Programming Interface

ATM     Asynchronous Transfer Mode

BSI     Bundesamt für Sicherheit in der Informationstechnik (D)

BT      British Telecom

CASE    Computer Aided System Engineering

CCITT   Commité Consultative International Télégraphique et
Téléphonique

CD      Compact Disc

CEC     Commission of the European Communities

CEN     Comité Européen de Normalisation

CENELEC Comité Européen de Normalisation Electrotechnique

CESG    Communication Electronics Security Group

COMPUSEC        Computer Security

COMSEC  Communication Security

COTS    Commercial off the Shelf

CPIC    Canadian Police Information Centre

CSBM    Confidence and Security-Building Measure

CTCPEC  Canadian Trusted Computer Product Evaluation Criteria

DES     Data Encryption Standard

DIS     Draft International Standard

EC      European Community

ECU     European Currency Unit

EDI     Electronic Data Interchange

EDIFACT EDI for Administration, Commerce and Transport

EDP     Electronic Data Processing

ESE     Electronic Security Environment

ETSI    European Telecommunication Standards Institute

FBI     Federal Bureau of Investigation (US)

FPR     Fichier des Personnes Recherchees

GDP     Gross Domestic Product

GSE     Global Security Environment

GSM     Groupe Special Mobile

IBAG    INFOSEC Business Advisory Group

IBC     Integrated Broadband Communication

IEC     International Electrotechnical Commission

IEEE    Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers

INTERPOL        International Police

IPR     Intellectual Property Rights

IS      Information Security

ISDN    Integrated Services Digital Network

ISO     International Organisation for Standardisation

ITAEGV  IT Advisory Expert Group for Information Security

ITSEC   Information Technology Security Evaluation Criteria

ITSEF   Information Technology Evaluation Facility

ITSEM   Information Technology Security Evaluation Manual

JTC 1   Joint Technical Committee One

LAN     Local Area Network

LSE     Local Security Environment

MHS     Message Handling System

MOD     Ministry of Defence

NCIC    National Crime Information Centre

NIST    National Institute of Standards and Technology (US)

ODP     Open Distributed Processing

OECD    Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development

ONP     Open Network Provision

OSI     Open System Interconnection

PGP     Pretty Good Privacy (Encryption Software)

PIN     Personal Identification Number

PNC2    Police National Computer 2 (UK)

R&D     Research and Development

ROM     Read Only Memory

RSA     Rivest, Shamir and Adleman (asymmetric encryption algorithm)

SCSSI   Service Central de la Sécurité des Systèmes d'Information (F)

SDH     Synchronous Digital Hierarchy

SME     Small and Medium Enterprise

SOG-IS  Senior Officials Group - Information Systems Security

SRI     Stanford Research Institute

SSPS    System Security Policy Statement

TA      Technological Assessment

TCSEC   Trusted Computer System Evaluation Criteria

TEDIS   Trade EDI System

TOE     Target of Evaluation

TTP     Trusted Third Party

UN      United Nations

WAN     Wide Area Network



Appendix C:     Index





acceptance testing, 85

access control, 40

access to security related data, 38

accessibility, 102

accreditation, 114

accreditation of services, 114

accreditation of TTPs, 83, 115, 135

Action Lines, 1, 140

actors and roles, 50

advice and instruction versus prohibition, 53

aggregation, 102

assurance, 93

asymmetric encryption, 72

audit of TTPs, 83, 135

audit trails, 63

audits, 65

authentic naming, 41

authentication, 16

authorisation mechanisms, 41

authority of a digital signature, 48

automated systems, 98

availability, 23

awareness, 50, 117

biometric controls, 17

biometric methods, 16

broadband communications, 97

CASE, 92

certification, 74

certification of credentials, 53

chipcards, 69

choice versus interoperability, 52

civil acts, 108

claim of origin, 43, 68

claim of ownership, 43, 68

codes of conduct, 115

commercial and national security, 21

commercial environment, 105

commercial off the shelf (COTS), 24

common practices, 115

company and organisational law, 108

competitive advantage, 23

computer crime laws, 108

confidence in communication, 18

confidence in services, 18

confidentiality level, 72

confidentiality schemes, 72

confidentiality, user needs, 49

consistency of procurement practices, 59

constitutional rights, 108

consumer protection, 108

cost of detection, 32

cost of security, 32

costs, 23

counterfeiting, 108

countermeasures, 23

credentials, 74

credit cards, 42

criminal acts, 108

data compression, 102

Data Encryption Standard (DES), 72

data exchange, 104

data held in electronic form, 100

data protection laws, 108

demand for certificates, 95

demand for confidentiality, 49

demand related issues, 29

demand related issues., 11

demands for new  technological approaches, 96

deprivation of ownership, 108

destruction to property, 108

digital signature, 46, 47

digital signatures, 69

dissemination, 103

distinguished name, 54

distributed-secret escrow systems, 78

durability, 103

duty of care, 22

economics of the security, 23

education and  training, 117

electronic cash, 42

electronic negotiable documents, 68

electronic trading, 32

eliminating harm, 107

embedded systems security, 27

escrow services, 78

escrow systems, 78

ethical principles, 25

European Convention of Human Rights, 108

EUROPOL, 22

evaluation of applications, 88

evaluation of communication services, 89

evaluation of methods and tools, 91

evaluation of trusted solutions, 84

evidence, 102

expectations, 103

fair exchange of values, 44, 70

forgery, 108

form, 102

formal evaluation, 85

formal evaluations, 58

four freedoms, 14

FPR, 22

fraud, 108

functionality and assurance, 31

general issues, 13

global teleconferencing, 97

globalisation of the economy, 14

granularity (meeting differentiated needs), 50

human factors, 26

human rights and the protection of communications, 15

human rights and the safety, 17

identification, 16

identification mechanisms, 41

impact of loss of information, 50

impact of theft of information, 50

indirect evaluation, 85

information security audit, 110

INPOL, 22

insurance, 112

integrity and digital signatures, 77

intellectual property rights (s.a. ownership), 108

interconnected law enforcement/criminal information systems, 22

internal market, 14

international  mutual recognition, 85

international agreements, 114

international harmonisation, 85

international scale, 22

interworking of autonomous confidentiality services, 82, 135

interworking of TTPs, 81

IS-to-cost, 24

issues (of general nature), 13

issues (related to demand), 29

issues (related to supply), 67

judicial immunity, 108

jurisdictional issues, 111

key generation, 47

key length, 47

key management, 72, 74

key management service, 77

key usage, 76

lack of care, 25

legal framework, 99

legal functions of signatures, 48

legal principles for digital signatures, 47, 128

legal restrictions affecting technical solutions, 108

legislation, 114

legislative environment, 104

liability, 99, 101, 104, 105, 107, 109, 137, 138

liability limiting measures, 109

libel, 108

life-cycle costs, 23

loss assessment, 62

LOTOS, 92

maintenance of safety and assurance, 95

management of openness and protection, 19

management of TTPs, 80

management services for credentials, 79

management services for names, 79

mandatory assurance, 23

mass data storage, 98

measures to provide information security, 113

mitigating harm, 107

mobile services, 98

mobility, 14

modifications to evaluated products, 92

motivation to acquire evaluated solutions, 59

multi media  applications, 97

mutual confidence and TTPs, 50

name assignment, 74

names, 53

NCIC, 22

negotiable documents, 69

non-repudiation services, 43, 68

objective records, 21

Open Distributed Processing (ODP), 20

Open Network Provision (ONP), 20

Open System Interconnection (OSI), 20

operating principles of TTPs, 80

organisation of security, 33

organised crime, 22

original, 103

ownership, 103

ownership of biometric data, 17

performance, 23

performance reporting for trusted products, 94

persistence, 103

physical and procedural issues, 92

PNC2, 22

policy framework, 113

political environment, 105

portable systems, 98

preservation, 102

privacy enhancement, 49, 77

privacy of biometric data, 17

procedural  issues, 111

processing, 102

products and services, 115

protection of information in safety critical environments, 26

protection of workstation, 47

provision of public confidentiality services, 51, 129

public digital signature scheme, 48

public key, 54

quasi-material form, 103

random (unpredictable) components, 41

rationale, 3, 10

rationalisation of evaluations, 94

re-evaluation, 92

re-use, 93

real time tools for IS diagnostics and counter measures, 98

regulation, 114

relationships between private parties, 106

requirements for action, 3

requirements for evaluations, 57

responsibilities, 99

right to signature, 46, 128

rights,, 99

rights, responsibilities and liabilities issues., 12

risk analysis and management, 61

Rivest, Shamir, Adleman (RSA), 72

safety of communication systems, 56

safety specific methodologies, 64

schengen information system, 22

scope of the evaluation, 93

scope, definition, 11

secret key, 54

sectoral specifics, 35

security administration, 32

security and innovation, 34

security and law enforcement, 22

security and safety methodologies, 60

security domains, 21, 36

security functions, 40

security hazards, 27

security incident reporting, 61

security labelling, 37

security management, 73

security methodologies, 34

security objectives, 34

security objectives for enterprises, 33

security of electronically stored  information, 55

security of information systems, definition, 10

security policy, 34

security requirements for enterprises, 30

security requirements for individual users, 38

security services, 42, 67

self evaluations, 58

self-evaluation, 87

senior officials group, 1

service provision, 49

signature schemes, 71

single market, 10

slander, 108

social acceptance, 16

social recognition of information crime, 24

software quality, 94

specifications, 117

standardisation  of the use of electronic data, 104

standards, 117

structure of document, 11

supply related issues, 12, 67

supra-national and international treaties, 108

symmetric encryption, 72

technological change, 96

technology, 118

technology assessment, 63

theft, 108

time-stamping, 45, 70

trespassing, 108

trevi information system, 22

trusted network management, 90

trusted third parties (TTPs), 73

trustworthiness of communication, 57

TTPs (accreditation of, audit of), 83, 135

TTPs (interworking of), 81

TTPs (management of), 80

TTPs (mutual confidence of), 50

TTPs (operating principles of), 80

unauthorised disclosure, 108

universal acceptance of digital signatures, 48, 128

untraceability, 44, 70

valuation of information, 66

vendor declarations, 85, 87, 88

vendor declarations,, 58

weak information security, 22

Z, 92

1       OJ No L 123, 8.5.1992, p.19

2       SOG-IS Opinion of 17.11.92 on objectives, scope and approach

3       Information Security is concerned with the protection of
information stored, processed or transmitted in electronic form,
against deliberate or accidental threats.

	Information is acquired, communicated, processed and stored by
	Information Services.  Electronic Information services need a
	secure communication infrastructure, secure terminals
	(including processors and data bases) as well as secure usage.
	The management of the service provision itself must also and
	foremost be secure.  Therefore the approach to information
	security starts form an analysis of the needs of an individual
	or organisation for Information Services.

4       92/242/EEC

5       This danger has already been identified and OECD Member
Countries have, in the context of Protection of Privacy and Transborder
Data Flow of Personal Data, recognised the risk of new technical
barriers forming.  They have therefore agreed to endeavour to remove
and to avoid to create in the name of privacy protection, unjustified
obstacles to transborder flows of personal data, co-operate in the
implementation of the Guidelines and agree as soon as possible on
specific procedures of consultation and co-operation for the
application of these Guidelines.

6       Openness necessitates the following requirements

	1)      Accessibility to anyone

	2)      Accessibility at any place

	3)      Accessibility at any later time

	4)      Transparent functionality

	5)      Standardised modes of use

	6)      Formalised legal evidence

These requirements must be met and protected by appropriate security
measures.

7       The following definitions are used in the text of this
section:

	"data" means a representation of facts, concepts or
	instructions in a formalised manner suitable for communication,
	interpretation or processing by human beings or automatic
	means;

	"information" is the meaning assigned to data by means of
	conventions applied to that data;

	"information systems" means computers, communication
	facilities, computer and communication networks and data and
	information that may be stored, processed, retrieved or
	transmitted by them, including programs, specifications and
	procedures for their operation, use and maintenance.





